
doi:10.2174/138161210791920423
Title:Effect of particle formulation on dry powder inhalation efficiency
Authors:M.S. HassanR. Lau
Absract:Dry powder inhalation has good potential to be an alternative route of drug administration, especially for the treatment of lung and systemic diseases. However, typically only a small fraction of the dose can be delivered to the lower airways. Continuous effort on the drug formulation is undergoing to improve the deep lung deposition. Key properties of the drug and carrier particles and their relationships with the particle dispersibility and deposition properties in the lung are discussed individually. Some recent drug formulation techniques for dry powder inhalation are also reviewed. © 2010 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.18093/0869-0189-2017-27-1-122-126
Title:Nebulized therapy in pediatrics
Authors:A.B. MalakhovN.G. Kolosova
Absract:Inhalation therapy is a modern and preferable method of drug delivery which is currently used for treatment of majority of acute and chronic respi-ratory diseases of children and adults. Recently, inhalation devices have evolved significantly. Scientific researches are focused on interaction between drug molecules and aerosol-producing device. Effectiveness of inhalation therapy depends generally on the drug, its dose and technical parameters of the device. Inhalation devices that are able to produce drug aerosol effectively have been used for treatment of most pediatric diseases. Advantages of this therapy are quick onset of the action, the possibility to reduce a drug dose due to higher drug concentration in the airways and to decrease the risk of adverse events and independence of the liver metabolism. Nebulizes therapy has been currently used for therapy of the majority of pediatric respiratory diseases. Drug formulation diversity and ability to combine ≥ 2 drugs could enhance the treatment efficacy.

pui:13087198
Title:Corticoid powder inhalation
Authors:N.K. Scheffler
Absract:Inhalation therapy is a modern and preferable method of drug delivery which is currently used for treatment of majority of acute and chronic respi-ratory diseases of children and adults. Recently, inhalation devices have evolved significantly. Scientific researches are focused on interaction between drug molecules and aerosol-producing device. Effectiveness of inhalation therapy depends generally on the drug, its dose and technical parameters of the device. Inhalation devices that are able to produce drug aerosol effectively have been used for treatment of most pediatric diseases. Advantages of this therapy are quick onset of the action, the possibility to reduce a drug dose due to higher drug concentration in the airways and to decrease the risk of adverse events and independence of the liver metabolism. Nebulizes therapy has been currently used for therapy of the majority of pediatric respiratory diseases. Drug formulation diversity and ability to combine ≥ 2 drugs could enhance the treatment efficacy.

pui:21135352
Title:Inhalation-induced disease?
Authors:G. Vrzak
Absract:Inhalation therapy is a modern and preferable method of drug delivery which is currently used for treatment of majority of acute and chronic respi-ratory diseases of children and adults. Recently, inhalation devices have evolved significantly. Scientific researches are focused on interaction between drug molecules and aerosol-producing device. Effectiveness of inhalation therapy depends generally on the drug, its dose and technical parameters of the device. Inhalation devices that are able to produce drug aerosol effectively have been used for treatment of most pediatric diseases. Advantages of this therapy are quick onset of the action, the possibility to reduce a drug dose due to higher drug concentration in the airways and to decrease the risk of adverse events and independence of the liver metabolism. Nebulizes therapy has been currently used for therapy of the majority of pediatric respiratory diseases. Drug formulation diversity and ability to combine ≥ 2 drugs could enhance the treatment efficacy.

pui:38529383
Title:A complementary combination of delivery device and drug formulation for inhalation therapy in preschool children
Authors:K.G. SchüeppS. DevadasonC. RollerJ.H. Wildhaber
Absract:The amount of drug delivered from commercially available inhalation devices which reaches the lungs of preschool children is generally low. We therefore studied the efficiency of lung delivery from an optimised combination of delivery device and drug formulation based on individual patient-related factors. In six three-year-old children we compared the delivery of a radiolabelled budesonide solution with a MMD of 4.2 μm from a conventional nebuliser, with that of a radiolabelled budesonide solution with a MMD of 2.5 μm from a perforated vibrating membrane nebuliser. Lung deposition of budesonide delivered from the perforated vibrating membrane nebuliser was 36% and 38% and notably higher than from a conventional nebuliser (maximum 8%). The development of complementary combinations of delivery devices and drug formulations to meet the needs of efficient inhalation therapy in preschool children seems to be a good way of improving the efficacy of inhaled therapy in this age group.

pui:28510849
Title:Optimizing delivery of drugs to the lungs
Authors:S.P. Newman
Absract:A range of inhaler devices, including pressurized metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and nebulisers, are used in the maintenance therapy of asthma. Optimal drug delivery to the lungs depends upon an interaction between the inhaler device, the drug formulation and the patient. Slow inhalation with breath-holding constitutes optimal inhaler technique for pressurized metered dose inhalers, whereas fast inhalation is needed to optimize drug delivery from most dry powder inhalers. Current-trends point towards increasingly efficient inhaler devices which maximize the percentage of the drug dose reaching the lungs, so that effective asthma therapy can be achieved with the smallest possible treatment dose.

doi:10.1016/j.jpba.2015.11.040
Title:Quantitative assay of capreomycin oleate levels in a drug formulation for inhalation with a fully validated HPLC method
Authors:F. IanniA. SchoubbenD. MontesanoN. WauthozL. CossignaniR. SardellaB. Natalini
Absract:Capreomycin sulfate (CS), a mixture of 4 closely related compounds (powder mainly comprised of 2 forms), commonly injected intramuscularly is intended to be administer by inhalation for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.In order to increase the drug residence time in the lung, capreomycin hydrophobicity was enhanced by substituting sulfate with oleate, thus obtaining capreomycin oleate (CO). The generation of a more hydrophobic ion-pair allows the reduction of the drug solubilisation in the bronchoalveolar fluids as well as its systemic absorption.The aim of the present study was to quantify CO in an in-house prepared drug formulation for inhalation. In this regard, a Hydrophilic Liquid Interaction Chromatography (HILIC) method was optimized with acetonitrile (ACN)/water containing eluents and a diol-type stationary phase. The optimal eluent composition [ACN/water-80/20 (v/v), 20 mM ammonium formate, 3.0 wspH] produced a good separation (α equal to 1.15) between the two main peaks. The developed HILIC method succeeded in the quantitative assay of CO in the drug formulation and was fully validated. Very good precision and accuracy in the short- and long-period along with appreciably low LOD and LOQ values (respectively 1.75 and 5.25 μg/mL) turned out.

pui:10140923
Title:Standardization of inhalation tests. Influence of method of aerosol generation and inhalation
Authors:M. DolovichG. ObminskiD.W. Cockcroft
Absract:Capreomycin sulfate (CS), a mixture of 4 closely related compounds (powder mainly comprised of 2 forms), commonly injected intramuscularly is intended to be administer by inhalation for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.In order to increase the drug residence time in the lung, capreomycin hydrophobicity was enhanced by substituting sulfate with oleate, thus obtaining capreomycin oleate (CO). The generation of a more hydrophobic ion-pair allows the reduction of the drug solubilisation in the bronchoalveolar fluids as well as its systemic absorption.The aim of the present study was to quantify CO in an in-house prepared drug formulation for inhalation. In this regard, a Hydrophilic Liquid Interaction Chromatography (HILIC) method was optimized with acetonitrile (ACN)/water containing eluents and a diol-type stationary phase. The optimal eluent composition [ACN/water-80/20 (v/v), 20 mM ammonium formate, 3.0 wspH] produced a good separation (α equal to 1.15) between the two main peaks. The developed HILIC method succeeded in the quantitative assay of CO in the drug formulation and was fully validated. Very good precision and accuracy in the short- and long-period along with appreciably low LOD and LOQ values (respectively 1.75 and 5.25 μg/mL) turned out.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.07.008
Title:Challenges for pulmonary delivery of high powder doses
Authors:I. SibumP. HagedoornA.H. de BoerH.W. FrijlinkF. Grasmeijer
Absract:In recent years there is an increasing interest in the pulmonary delivery of large cohesive powder doses, i.e. drugs with a low potency such as antibiotics or drugs with a high potency that need a substantial fraction of excipient(s) such as vaccines stabilized in sugar glasses. The pulmonary delivery of high powder doses comes with unique challenges. For low potency drugs, the use of excipients should be minimized to limit the powder mass to be inhaled as much as possible. To achieve this objective the inhaler design should be adapted to the properties of the API in order to achieve a compatible combination of the drug formulation and inhaler device. The inhaler should have an appropriate powder dosing principle for which prefilled compartments seem most appropriate. The drug formulation should not only allow for accurate filling of these compartments but also enable efficient compartment emptying during inhalation. The dispersion principle must have the capacity to disperse considerable amounts of powder in a short time frame that allows the powder to reach the deep lung. Last, but not least, the inhaler should be simple and intuitive in use, be cost-effective and exhibit accurate and consistent, preferably patient independent, pulmonary delivery performance.

pui:24231557
Title:Preparations for inhalation for the European Pharmacopoeia
Authors:I. SibumP. HagedoornA.H. de BoerH.W. FrijlinkF. Grasmeijer
Absract:In recent years there is an increasing interest in the pulmonary delivery of large cohesive powder doses, i.e. drugs with a low potency such as antibiotics or drugs with a high potency that need a substantial fraction of excipient(s) such as vaccines stabilized in sugar glasses. The pulmonary delivery of high powder doses comes with unique challenges. For low potency drugs, the use of excipients should be minimized to limit the powder mass to be inhaled as much as possible. To achieve this objective the inhaler design should be adapted to the properties of the API in order to achieve a compatible combination of the drug formulation and inhaler device. The inhaler should have an appropriate powder dosing principle for which prefilled compartments seem most appropriate. The drug formulation should not only allow for accurate filling of these compartments but also enable efficient compartment emptying during inhalation. The dispersion principle must have the capacity to disperse considerable amounts of powder in a short time frame that allows the powder to reach the deep lung. Last, but not least, the inhaler should be simple and intuitive in use, be cost-effective and exhibit accurate and consistent, preferably patient independent, pulmonary delivery performance.

doi:10.2174/1381612822666160128145644
Title:Selected engineering and physicochemical aspects of systemic drug delivery by inhalation
Authors:T.R. Sosnowski
Absract:Inhalation of aerosolized pharmaceuticals is a non-invasive and convenient method of drug delivery typically used for local treatment of lung diseases. Large absorption area of the pulmonary region opens up the possibility of fast and effective transfer of inhaled medicines to the circulation in order to obtain systemic effects. This review is devoted to selected albeit essential challenges of targeting aerosolized drugs to the blood via the pulmonary part of the respiratory system. The special attention is given to some physicochemical aspects of drug formulation which are essential for overcoming the air-blood barrier present in the lungs. It is deemed that a careful analysis of multifarious physical and engineering problems, related to aerosol fate in the lungs, is indispensable for a better design of inhalation delivery systems for systemic drugs.

doi:10.1089/0894268041457228
Title:Deposition of aerosols in infants and children
Authors:K.G. SchüeppD. StraubA. MöllerJ.H. Wildhaber
Absract:There is still a lack of knowledge in the field of aerosol therapy in children, particularly in young children. The amount of drug delivered from a commercially available inhalation device that reaches the lungs of children is generally low. The choice of an optimal combination of delivery device and drug formulation based on individual patient related factors is crucial. Aerosols with a small MMAD and a narrow GSD are required for a sufficient inhalation therapy in early childhood. The development of combinations of delivery devices and drug formulations fulfilling the requirements for an efficient inhalation therapy in young children is likely to increase the therapeutical options in this age group.

pui:619718200
Title:The future of inhaled medications and inhalation technology
Authors:S. Moore
Absract:There is still a lack of knowledge in the field of aerosol therapy in children, particularly in young children. The amount of drug delivered from a commercially available inhalation device that reaches the lungs of children is generally low. The choice of an optimal combination of delivery device and drug formulation based on individual patient related factors is crucial. Aerosols with a small MMAD and a narrow GSD are required for a sufficient inhalation therapy in early childhood. The development of combinations of delivery devices and drug formulations fulfilling the requirements for an efficient inhalation therapy in young children is likely to increase the therapeutical options in this age group.

pui:5011544
Title:Aerosols in medicine
Authors:G. PickrothB. GottschalkH. Blaha
Absract:There is still a lack of knowledge in the field of aerosol therapy in children, particularly in young children. The amount of drug delivered from a commercially available inhalation device that reaches the lungs of children is generally low. The choice of an optimal combination of delivery device and drug formulation based on individual patient related factors is crucial. Aerosols with a small MMAD and a narrow GSD are required for a sufficient inhalation therapy in early childhood. The development of combinations of delivery devices and drug formulations fulfilling the requirements for an efficient inhalation therapy in young children is likely to increase the therapeutical options in this age group.

pui:619767254
Title:Looking to the future â€" The route for inhaled medications and inhalation technology
Authors:S. Moore
Absract:There is still a lack of knowledge in the field of aerosol therapy in children, particularly in young children. The amount of drug delivered from a commercially available inhalation device that reaches the lungs of children is generally low. The choice of an optimal combination of delivery device and drug formulation based on individual patient related factors is crucial. Aerosols with a small MMAD and a narrow GSD are required for a sufficient inhalation therapy in early childhood. The development of combinations of delivery devices and drug formulations fulfilling the requirements for an efficient inhalation therapy in young children is likely to increase the therapeutical options in this age group.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2019.105059
Title:Real-life budesonide and formoterol dose emission from the medium and high strength fixed dosed combinations in a Spiromax® dry powder inhaler using inhalation profiles from patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:G. BagherisadeghiH. ChrystynM. AbadelahE.H. Larhrib
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are passive devices used to administer inhaled medication for the management of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). DPIs require patients to generate a sufficient internal turbulent airflow force during each inhalation to deaggregate the powdered drug formulation into an emitted dose containing particles with the greatest likelihood of lung deposition. This internal force is generated by the interaction between the user's inhalation flow and the resistance of the DPI. Traditional compendial in vitro methods of measuring dose emission use a vacuum pump to simulate inhalation. We have adapted this in vitro method by replacing the square wave inhalation profile generated by a vacuum pump with the inhalation profiles of patients using an empty DPI. This method enables accurate assessment of the actual dose they would have inhaled. In the present study, real-life inhalation profiles were selected from 15 patients with COPD who inhaled through an empty placebo Spiromax® DPI. Ex vivo dose emissions were measured for the medium (emitted dose of 160 μg/4.5 μg) and high-strength (320 μg/9 μg) budesonide/formoterol formulations from the Spiromax DPI. These profiles were used to investigate the effect of the primary inhalation parameter—peak inhalation flow (PIF). Some profiles were modified to isolate other inhalation parameters (namely, inhaled volume [V@sub_beginin@sub_end] and acceleration rate of the inhalation maneuver [ACIM]). Both the medium-strength and high-strength DuoResp Spiromax displayed flow-dependent dose emission. When the PIF of a patient's inhalation maneuver increased from 26.8 L/min to 69.7 L/min, there was a significant (p < 0.05) effect on the dose-emission characteristics of the medium-strength and high-strength DuoResp Spiromax. At each PIF, an increase in V@sub_beginin@sub_end from approximately 500 mL to 2000 mL had no effect on the dose-emission characteristics of either strength. However, at each V@sub_beginin@sub_end there was a significant (p < 0.05) effect on the dose-emission characteristics as PIF increased. The effect of ACIM on the dose-emission characteristics was small. The ex vivo methodology used in this study provides a practical approach to identify the actual dose a patient might inhale during routine real-life use of the DuoResp Spiromax.

pui:373362485
Title:Pulmonary Drug Delivery-Particle Engineering for Inhaled Therapeutics: Industry experts discuss the various factors affecting drug delivery to the lungs and key considerations when developing inhalation formulations
Authors:A. Siew
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are passive devices used to administer inhaled medication for the management of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). DPIs require patients to generate a sufficient internal turbulent airflow force during each inhalation to deaggregate the powdered drug formulation into an emitted dose containing particles with the greatest likelihood of lung deposition. This internal force is generated by the interaction between the user's inhalation flow and the resistance of the DPI. Traditional compendial in vitro methods of measuring dose emission use a vacuum pump to simulate inhalation. We have adapted this in vitro method by replacing the square wave inhalation profile generated by a vacuum pump with the inhalation profiles of patients using an empty DPI. This method enables accurate assessment of the actual dose they would have inhaled. In the present study, real-life inhalation profiles were selected from 15 patients with COPD who inhaled through an empty placebo Spiromax® DPI. Ex vivo dose emissions were measured for the medium (emitted dose of 160 μg/4.5 μg) and high-strength (320 μg/9 μg) budesonide/formoterol formulations from the Spiromax DPI. These profiles were used to investigate the effect of the primary inhalation parameter—peak inhalation flow (PIF). Some profiles were modified to isolate other inhalation parameters (namely, inhaled volume [V@sub_beginin@sub_end] and acceleration rate of the inhalation maneuver [ACIM]). Both the medium-strength and high-strength DuoResp Spiromax displayed flow-dependent dose emission. When the PIF of a patient's inhalation maneuver increased from 26.8 L/min to 69.7 L/min, there was a significant (p < 0.05) effect on the dose-emission characteristics of the medium-strength and high-strength DuoResp Spiromax. At each PIF, an increase in V@sub_beginin@sub_end from approximately 500 mL to 2000 mL had no effect on the dose-emission characteristics of either strength. However, at each V@sub_beginin@sub_end there was a significant (p < 0.05) effect on the dose-emission characteristics as PIF increased. The effect of ACIM on the dose-emission characteristics was small. The ex vivo methodology used in this study provides a practical approach to identify the actual dose a patient might inhale during routine real-life use of the DuoResp Spiromax.

doi:10.2165/00126839-200304010-00005
Title:Budesonide hydrofluoroalkane inhalation - Chiesi: Budesonide HFA inhalation - Chiesi, budesonide Modulite, S 1320 HFA inhalation - Chiesi
Authors:A. Siew
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are passive devices used to administer inhaled medication for the management of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). DPIs require patients to generate a sufficient internal turbulent airflow force during each inhalation to deaggregate the powdered drug formulation into an emitted dose containing particles with the greatest likelihood of lung deposition. This internal force is generated by the interaction between the user's inhalation flow and the resistance of the DPI. Traditional compendial in vitro methods of measuring dose emission use a vacuum pump to simulate inhalation. We have adapted this in vitro method by replacing the square wave inhalation profile generated by a vacuum pump with the inhalation profiles of patients using an empty DPI. This method enables accurate assessment of the actual dose they would have inhaled. In the present study, real-life inhalation profiles were selected from 15 patients with COPD who inhaled through an empty placebo Spiromax® DPI. Ex vivo dose emissions were measured for the medium (emitted dose of 160 μg/4.5 μg) and high-strength (320 μg/9 μg) budesonide/formoterol formulations from the Spiromax DPI. These profiles were used to investigate the effect of the primary inhalation parameter—peak inhalation flow (PIF). Some profiles were modified to isolate other inhalation parameters (namely, inhaled volume [V@sub_beginin@sub_end] and acceleration rate of the inhalation maneuver [ACIM]). Both the medium-strength and high-strength DuoResp Spiromax displayed flow-dependent dose emission. When the PIF of a patient's inhalation maneuver increased from 26.8 L/min to 69.7 L/min, there was a significant (p < 0.05) effect on the dose-emission characteristics of the medium-strength and high-strength DuoResp Spiromax. At each PIF, an increase in V@sub_beginin@sub_end from approximately 500 mL to 2000 mL had no effect on the dose-emission characteristics of either strength. However, at each V@sub_beginin@sub_end there was a significant (p < 0.05) effect on the dose-emission characteristics as PIF increased. The effect of ACIM on the dose-emission characteristics was small. The ex vivo methodology used in this study provides a practical approach to identify the actual dose a patient might inhale during routine real-life use of the DuoResp Spiromax.

pui:14222165
Title:A cumulative dose response study for the comparison of the effect of inhalation of two dose sequences of fenoterol inhalation powder
Authors:H. DirksenS. GrothE. Munch
Absract:The effect of inhalation of two dose sequences of fenoterol inhalation powder were compared in a double-blind cumulative dose response investigation. Nine patients with stable asthma participated in the study. In dose response 1, 50 + 50 + 100 + 200 μg of fenoterol powder were inhaled and in dose sequence II, 200 + 50 + 50 + 50 μg fenoterol inhalation powder. There was no significant difference in the effect of lung function or tremor at any point following the two methods of inhalation.

pui:16044357
Title:A new inhalation technique for improved effect of aerosolized drugs in asthma. 'The shrug of the shoulder method'
Authors:L.C. Laursen
Absract:A new, simple technique for inhalation of aerosolized drugs is described: During the breathholding period after inhalation from a pressurized aerosol the patient lifts his right and lowers his left shoulder and vice versa to 'disperse' the drug as well as possible in the lungs. Twenty outpatients suffering from reversible bronchial obstruction inhaled two puffs from a pressurized terbutaline aerosol in the morning on two consecutive days using the new inhalation technique on one day and their ordinary technique on the other in this randomized, cross-over trial. Compared with the conventional method the new inhalation technique significantly improved bronchodilation as measured by forced expiratory volume in 1st s and forced vital capacity during a period of 6 h. The new method of inhalation may improve treatment with aerosolized drugs.

doi:10.2745/dds.24.468
Title:Development of Otsuka dry powder inhalation system using technology of freeze-drying
Authors:C. Yamashita
Absract:Conventional dry powder inhalation systems are based on the preconception that the inhalant formulation is suitably pre-micronized during the manufacturing process. Here, I report Otsuka Dry Powder Inhalation : ODPI) system in which a freeze-dried cake breaks down into fine particles upon inhalation. The ODPI system is characterized by the utilization of a freeze-dried cake with a unique porous network structure resembling a spider web that differs from the conventional freeze-dried cake at the micro-level.

pui:22151527
Title:The effect of the inhalation flow on the performance of a dry powder inhalation system
Authors:P. ZanenP.I. Van SpiegelH. Van Der KolkE. TushuizenR. Enthoven
Absract:Dry powder inhalation systems are mostly composed of complexes of (lactose) carriers and micronised drug crystals. These complexes are separated during inhalation of the powder in order to deliver respirable particles to the lungs: this process is energy-dependent. The effect of increasing inhalation flows was investigated both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro it was found that only particles > 5 μm separated better with increasing flows. Particles < 5 μm were separated completely at low flows. In vivo no significant differences in bronchodilation (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and MEF@sub_begin50@sub_end) after inhalation at 40 or 80 l/min were found. This means that patients can use dry powder inhalers with low inhalation flows, which is beneficial to those patients with reduced muscle power.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.07.003
Title:New aspects of developing a dry powder inhalation formulation applying the quality-by-design approach
Authors:E. PallagiK. KarimiR. AmbrusP. Szabó-RévészI. Csóka
Absract:The current work outlines the application of an up-to-date and regulatory-based pharmaceutical quality management method, applied as a new development concept in the process of formulating dry powder inhalation systems (DPIs). According to the Quality by Design (QbD) methodology and Risk Assessment (RA) thinking, a mannitol based co-spray dried formula was produced as a model dosage form with meloxicam as the model active agent. The concept and the elements of the QbD approach (regarding its systemic, scientific, risk-based, holistic, and proactive nature with defined steps for pharmaceutical development), as well as the experimental drug formulation (including the technological parameters assessed and the methods and processes applied) are described in the current paper. Findings of the QbD based theoretical prediction and the results of the experimental development are compared and presented. Characteristics of the developed end-product were in correlation with the predictions, and all data were confirmed by the relevant results of the in vitro investigations. These results support the importance of using the QbD approach in new drug formulation, and prove its good usability in the early development process of DPIs. This innovative formulation technology and product appear to have a great potential in pulmonary drug delivery.

pui:23130424
Title:Development of a high-dose technetium Tc 99m labeled sulfur colloid metered dose inhalation aerosol
Authors:N. GaddipatiM. GraziosiK. EllwayM. Ganesan
Absract:Radiolabeled Technetium sulfur colloid metered dose inhalation aerosol (MDI) suitable to evaluate pulmonary deposition from inhalation devices has been developed by using a lyophilization process to prepare the radiolabeled material for aerosolization. The reproducibility of the manufacturing process was demonstrated by characterizing the aerosol performance with respect to dose delivery, particle size, and valve delivery.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.11.034
Title:Inhalation properties of water-soluble drug loaded liposomes atomized by nebulizer
Authors:S. UnidaY. ItoR. OnoderaK. TaharaH. Takeuchi
Absract:Radiolabeled Technetium sulfur colloid metered dose inhalation aerosol (MDI) suitable to evaluate pulmonary deposition from inhalation devices has been developed by using a lyophilization process to prepare the radiolabeled material for aerosolization. The reproducibility of the manufacturing process was demonstrated by characterizing the aerosol performance with respect to dose delivery, particle size, and valve delivery.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2014.02.024
Title:The dispersion behaviour of dry powder inhalation formulations cannot be assessed at a single inhalation flow rate
Authors:F. GrasmeijerA.H. De Boer
Absract:The dispersion performances of inhalation powders are often tested at only one inhalation flow rate in mechanistic formulation studies. This limited approach is challenged by studies showing that interactions exist between inhalation flow rate and the effects on dispersion performance of several formulation variables. In this note we explain that such interactions with inhalation flow rate are, in fact, always to be expected. Because these interactions may greatly affect conclusions concerning the effects of formulation variables and their underlying mechanisms, the utility of future dry powder inhalation formulation studies may benefit from an approach in which dispersion performance is by default tested over a range of inhalation flow rates.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.ab01
Title:Correlations between particle size distribution of micronised drug substances and the performance of drug inhalation powders delivered from the genuair® inhaler
Authors:R. OteroK. StahlF. GardeL. SerranoS. FolgerJ.F. DulsatB. FyrnysA. Masso
Absract:Particle size distribution (PSD) of drug substances used in drypowder inhalers is of critical importance for the developmentof drug inhalation powders. The definition of particle sizedepends on several factors including the clinical target in thelung, the type of formulation used, de-aggregation and performancecharacteristics of the inhaler device, physicochemicalproperties of the drug formulation, and the stability of the drugsubstance and the product. This study evaluated the aerodynamicperformance of different Genuair® dry powder inhalationproducts as a function of the drug substance particle size.Almirall has a range of molecules in different stages ofdevelopment that are intended for use in the Genuair® inhaler.One micronised active drug substance was chosen withseveral particle sizes in the range of 2.7μm to 4.4μm (D50%)and 4.8 μm to 8.7μm (D90%). The impact of dose strengthwasevaluated using a high and a low concentration of microniseddrug substance in the lactose blend. The leverage of PSD onthe stability of the drug product was also investigated.The results show a clear correlation between the particlesize distribution of the micronised drug substance and theaerodynamic performance of the drug product. Additionally,the stability of the inhalation powder formulations was unaffectedduring 6 months at storage conditions of 25°C/60%relative humidity (RH) and 40°C/75% RH.

pui:90387137
Title:A new method for the generation of aerosols of insoluble particles for use in inhalation studies. LF-41.
Authors:G.M. KanapillyO.G. RaabeG.J. Newton
Absract:Particle size distribution (PSD) of drug substances used in drypowder inhalers is of critical importance for the developmentof drug inhalation powders. The definition of particle sizedepends on several factors including the clinical target in thelung, the type of formulation used, de-aggregation and performancecharacteristics of the inhaler device, physicochemicalproperties of the drug formulation, and the stability of the drugsubstance and the product. This study evaluated the aerodynamicperformance of different Genuair® dry powder inhalationproducts as a function of the drug substance particle size.Almirall has a range of molecules in different stages ofdevelopment that are intended for use in the Genuair® inhaler.One micronised active drug substance was chosen withseveral particle sizes in the range of 2.7μm to 4.4μm (D50%)and 4.8 μm to 8.7μm (D90%). The impact of dose strengthwasevaluated using a high and a low concentration of microniseddrug substance in the lactose blend. The leverage of PSD onthe stability of the drug product was also investigated.The results show a clear correlation between the particlesize distribution of the micronised drug substance and theaerodynamic performance of the drug product. Additionally,the stability of the inhalation powder formulations was unaffectedduring 6 months at storage conditions of 25°C/60%relative humidity (RH) and 40°C/75% RH.

pui:632939593
Title:In my view the future of inhalation
Authors:L. Mao
Absract:Particle size distribution (PSD) of drug substances used in drypowder inhalers is of critical importance for the developmentof drug inhalation powders. The definition of particle sizedepends on several factors including the clinical target in thelung, the type of formulation used, de-aggregation and performancecharacteristics of the inhaler device, physicochemicalproperties of the drug formulation, and the stability of the drugsubstance and the product. This study evaluated the aerodynamicperformance of different Genuair® dry powder inhalationproducts as a function of the drug substance particle size.Almirall has a range of molecules in different stages ofdevelopment that are intended for use in the Genuair® inhaler.One micronised active drug substance was chosen withseveral particle sizes in the range of 2.7μm to 4.4μm (D50%)and 4.8 μm to 8.7μm (D90%). The impact of dose strengthwasevaluated using a high and a low concentration of microniseddrug substance in the lactose blend. The leverage of PSD onthe stability of the drug product was also investigated.The results show a clear correlation between the particlesize distribution of the micronised drug substance and theaerodynamic performance of the drug product. Additionally,the stability of the inhalation powder formulations was unaffectedduring 6 months at storage conditions of 25°C/60%relative humidity (RH) and 40°C/75% RH.

pui:15007802
Title:Treatment of asthma bronchiale clinical experiences with BDP-powder inhalation
Authors:H. HatzH. Kaiser
Absract:Particle size distribution (PSD) of drug substances used in drypowder inhalers is of critical importance for the developmentof drug inhalation powders. The definition of particle sizedepends on several factors including the clinical target in thelung, the type of formulation used, de-aggregation and performancecharacteristics of the inhaler device, physicochemicalproperties of the drug formulation, and the stability of the drugsubstance and the product. This study evaluated the aerodynamicperformance of different Genuair® dry powder inhalationproducts as a function of the drug substance particle size.Almirall has a range of molecules in different stages ofdevelopment that are intended for use in the Genuair® inhaler.One micronised active drug substance was chosen withseveral particle sizes in the range of 2.7μm to 4.4μm (D50%)and 4.8 μm to 8.7μm (D90%). The impact of dose strengthwasevaluated using a high and a low concentration of microniseddrug substance in the lactose blend. The leverage of PSD onthe stability of the drug product was also investigated.The results show a clear correlation between the particlesize distribution of the micronised drug substance and theaerodynamic performance of the drug product. Additionally,the stability of the inhalation powder formulations was unaffectedduring 6 months at storage conditions of 25°C/60%relative humidity (RH) and 40°C/75% RH.

pui:14222158
Title:Optimal inhalation procedure for the fenoterol powder inhaler
Authors:S. GrothH. Dirksen
Absract:To assess the optimal inhalation procedure of a fenoterol (Berotec®) powder inhaler, the degree of reversibly of lung function impairment was studied in 10 patients with stable asthma after 1) deposition of 0.2 mg fenoterol under the tongue, 2) a rapid inhalation from residual volume (RV) to total lung capacity (TLC), and 3) a slow inhalation from functional residual capacity (FRC) to TLC. There was no effect of FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of depositing fenoterol under the tongue, bot both inhalation manoeuvres improved FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end significantly (p <0.01) and the rapid inspiration manoeuvre even slightly more (p <0.05) than the slow. It is concluded that the problem of impaction of large particles in the mouth and pharynx following rapid inhalation from a conventional pressurized cannister is considerably reduced with the fenoterol powder inhaler, due to the resistance it causes which tend to automatically reduce a forced inspiration flow rate to optimal low values.

pui:613710853
Title:Selection of excipients for dry powder inhalers
Authors:H.J.W. PetersG.A. Hebbink
Absract:As dry powder inhalers need a carrier to help with ensuring the drug is effectively delivered, interest has been focused on developing inhalation-grade lactose for this purpose. Harry Peters, Product Application Specialist Inhalation, and Gerald Hebbink, PhD, Scientist, both of DFE Pharma, look at which selection criteria to use to ensure the best grade of lactose is used for each dry powder inhalation formulation.

doi:10.4155/tde-2019-0018
Title:Dry powder inhalation of siRNA
Authors:T.W.M. KeilO.M. Merkel
Absract:As dry powder inhalers need a carrier to help with ensuring the drug is effectively delivered, interest has been focused on developing inhalation-grade lactose for this purpose. Harry Peters, Product Application Specialist Inhalation, and Gerald Hebbink, PhD, Scientist, both of DFE Pharma, look at which selection criteria to use to ensure the best grade of lactose is used for each dry powder inhalation formulation.

pui:14222161
Title:Acceptance of fenoterol powder for inhalation in children with bronchial asthma
Authors:V. Graff Lonnevig
Absract:Eighteen children with perennial bronchial asthma, aged 10.3 years, were studied with respect to their attitude to inhalation of fenoterol, a beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist in powder form. Treatment with fenoterol powder was performed for three months and questionnaires were answered after one respectively three months. Almost all children showed a positive attitude towards handling capsules and inhaler. Inhaling fenoterol powder was well accepted and the effect of the powder on asthma symptoms was regarded as good. Although the positive attitude to continue with powder inhalations declined somewhat at the end of observation period, fenoterol powder for inhalation seemed to be well accepted by children.

pui:25142133
Title:Overview
Authors:R. Wolff
Absract:Eighteen children with perennial bronchial asthma, aged 10.3 years, were studied with respect to their attitude to inhalation of fenoterol, a beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist in powder form. Treatment with fenoterol powder was performed for three months and questionnaires were answered after one respectively three months. Almost all children showed a positive attitude towards handling capsules and inhaler. Inhaling fenoterol powder was well accepted and the effect of the powder on asthma symptoms was regarded as good. Although the positive attitude to continue with powder inhalations declined somewhat at the end of observation period, fenoterol powder for inhalation seemed to be well accepted by children.

doi:10.2147/MDER.S48888
Title:Inhalation drug delivery devices: Technology update
Authors:M. IbrahimR. VermaL. Garcia-Contreras
Absract:The pulmonary route of administration has proven to be effective in local and systemic delivery of miscellaneous drugs and biopharmaceuticals to treat pulmonary and non-pulmonary diseases. A successful pulmonary administration requires a harmonic interaction between the drug formulation, the inhaler device, and the patient. However, the biggest single problem that accounts for the lack of desired effect or adverse outcomes is the incorrect use of the device due to lack of training in how to use the device or how to coordinate actuation and aerosol inhalation. This review summarizes the structural and mechanical features of aerosol delivery devices with respect to mechanisms of aerosol generation, their use with different formulations, and their advantages and limitations. A technological update of the current state-of-the-art designs proposed to overcome current challenges of existing devices is also provided.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2013.00A1
Title:Effect of inhalation delay on valved holding chambers with 3 HFA inhaler formulations
Authors:D. Von HollenL. SlatorR.H.M. HatleyK. Nikander
Absract:Valved holding chambers (VHCs) can circumvent poor hand-breath coordination in patients using pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). We investigated the effect of an inhalation delay on drug dose delivered via 3 VHCs: Opti- Chamber Diamond (Diamond; Philips Respironics); Aero- Chamber Plus Z-Stat; and AeroChamber Plus (Z-Stat and AC Plus; Monaghan Medical Corp.). Results for 0 s and 10 s delays are presented. VHCs were pre-washed, air dried, and tested with 3 HFA pMDI formulations: ProAir HFA, 90 μg albuterol sulfate, (ALB); Atrovent HFA, 17 μg ipratropium bromide (IPB); and QVAR HFA, 100 μg beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP). The primed pMDI was fired into the VHC, then, after a delay of 0 or 10 seconds, an extraction flow through the VHC and attached filter was initiated (30 L/min). After 10 actuations, drug deposited on the filter and VHC was analyzed using High Performance Liquid Chromatography. Tests were repeated for each drug formulation. The largest reduction in dose after a 10 s delay occurred with the conventional AC Plus VHC. Results for both anti-static VHCs (Diamond and Z-Stat) were similar with all 3 drug formulations. The largest impact of inhalation delay occurred with the BDP formulation. The ratio % of filter dose with the antistatic VHCs against the conventional AC Plus VHC was greater at 10 s, demonstrating a faster depletion of medication. Ratios were similar for Z-Stat and Diamond VHCs. (Table Presented).

doi:10.1016/j.cocis.2021.101497
Title:Natural and bioinspired excipients for dry powder inhalation formulations
Authors:D. ZillenM. BeugelingW.L.J. HinrichsH.W. FrijlinkF. Grasmeijer
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery can have several advantages over other administration routes, in particular when using dry powder formulations. Such dry powder inhalation formulations generally include natural and bio-inspired excipients, which, among other purposes, are used to improve dosing reproducibility and aerosolization performance. Amino acids can enhance powder dispersibility and provide protection against moisture uptake. Sugars are used as drug-carrying diluents, stabilizers for biopharmaceuticals, and surface enrichers. Lipids and lipid-like excipients can reduce interparticle adhesive forces and are also used as constituents of liposomal drug delivery systems. Finally, biodegradable polymers are used to facilitate sustained release and targeted drug delivery. Despite their promise, pulmonary toxicity of many of the discussed excipients remains largely unknown and requires attention in future research.

pui:612783839
Title:Two strikes, two outs, or time out? Inhalation for systemic effect
Authors:T. KararliK. SedoJ. Bossart
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery can have several advantages over other administration routes, in particular when using dry powder formulations. Such dry powder inhalation formulations generally include natural and bio-inspired excipients, which, among other purposes, are used to improve dosing reproducibility and aerosolization performance. Amino acids can enhance powder dispersibility and provide protection against moisture uptake. Sugars are used as drug-carrying diluents, stabilizers for biopharmaceuticals, and surface enrichers. Lipids and lipid-like excipients can reduce interparticle adhesive forces and are also used as constituents of liposomal drug delivery systems. Finally, biodegradable polymers are used to facilitate sustained release and targeted drug delivery. Despite their promise, pulmonary toxicity of many of the discussed excipients remains largely unknown and requires attention in future research.

pui:26024115
Title:Inhalation solution for asthmatic patients
Authors:J. BarionM. SchulzD. Timmermann
Absract:An inhalation solution with Ipratropium bromide, Fenoterol hydrobromide and Ambroxol hydrochloride is prepared for the patient suffering from bronchial asthma of various origin. Preparation and analytical methods are described.

pui:21146014
Title:Physical properties and clinical efficacy of two sodium cromoglycate inhalation aerosol preparations
Authors:M. VidgrenM. SilvastiP. VidgrenK. LaurikainenH. LehtiP. Paronen
Absract:An inhalation solution with Ipratropium bromide, Fenoterol hydrobromide and Ambroxol hydrochloride is prepared for the patient suffering from bronchial asthma of various origin. Preparation and analytical methods are described.

pui:17016887
Title:Comparison of physical and inhalation properties of spray-dried and mechanically micronized disodium cromoglycate
Authors:M.T. VidgrenP.A. VidgrenT.P. Paronen
Absract:The physical properties and in vitro inhalation behaviour of mechanically micronized and spray-dried disodium cromoglycate were compared. Spray-dried particles were found to be smaller than micronized particles, mainly in the range 1-5 μm. During the spray-drying process, spherical particles were formed. According to X-ray diffractometric analysis, spray-drying led to an amorphous crystal structure rather than to the crystalline structure of mechanically micronized disodium cromoglycate. The amorphous form was observed to dissolve in phosphate buffer solution at a somewhat higher rate than the crystalline form. During the in vitro inhalation test, a greater percentage of spray-dried disodium cromoglycate than of mechanically micronized disodium cromoglycate reached simulated alveoli 1-3 μm in size, which are therapeutically the most significant. On the basis of its physical properties, spray-dried disodium cromoglycate would seem capable of being used in inhalation therapy. During in vitro inhalation testing, it proved somewhat superior to micronized disodium cromoglycate.

pui:30759557
Title:Treatment of the bronchoobstruction with salbutamol inhalation solution
Authors:S. Cucak
Absract:Bronchoobstmction relates to the existance of an increased airway flow resistance. Treatment of the includes bronchoobstruction: β-2 adrenergic agonists, methylxanthines and anticholinergics. β-2 adrenergics produce: bronchial smooth muscle relaxation, mastocyte stabilization and increased frequency of cilliary movements. Salbutamol is a bronchodilator of short-acting selective beta-2 agonists group, chemically belonging to saligenins. It may be administered orally or by inhalation As an inhalation therapy salbutamol is used in three forms - as a metered dose inhaler, inhalation solution and powder for inhalation. SPALMOTIL® (Galenika a.d.) is one of salbutamol containing preparations, available in forms of tablets, syrup and inhalation solution. Inhalation solution differs from other forms in higher salbutamol dose - 1 ml contains 5 mg of salbutamol. The advantage of such a form of inhalation administration is an additional, moisturizing of mucosa and dillution of bronchial secretion which results in an effortless expectoration, which cannot be achieved by administration of other inhalation forms of this drug. Administration of Spalmotil® inhalation solution requires inhalation nebulizers, which can be pneumatic or electronic. There is evidence that the administration of β-2 agonists in form of inhalation solution results in desired intensity and duration of bronchodilatation. It has been shown that the administration of salbutamol inhalation solution is simple, not requiring special coordination and for this reason is suitable even for preschool children, which are difficult to be trained for adequate use of metered dose inhalers.

pui:2003660869
Title:Pharmaceutical considerations on the development of generic drugs of nebules inhalation solution
Authors:W.-Z. YangL.-L. NingJ.-Y. LuoM.-M. ChenX.-P. Zhu
Absract:Based on literature research and analysis of the dossiers, the aspects which should be considered for the development of generic drugs of nebules inhalation solution, such as formulation design, manufacture development, quality research, enclosure system and stability, were discussed in this article.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(98)00083-0
Title:Particle design of Wogon extract dry powder for inhalation aerosols with granulation method
Authors:T. HinoT. SeriganoH. YamamotoH. TakeuchiT. NiwaY. Kawashima
Absract:Aerosolization of Wogon extract powder (WEP) is difficult due to its strong adhesiveness to the inhalation device (Spinhaler®) on emitting. To improve inhalation property, WEP was granulated by slugging, tumbling and agitation methods. The inhalation properties were measured in vitro with a cascade impactor and a twin impinger. The inhalation behaviors of granules were determined by granulation method employed and inhalation conditions such as inhaled air flow rate. It was found that a key factor determining the inhalation property was the mechanical strength and the particle size of the granules. Soft granules were easily dispersed into air stream and were disintegrated to fine respirable particles. Whereas they adhered strongly to the inside wall of the device on inhalation. Consequently, a proportional correlation between the residual fraction in the inhalation device and the respirable fraction (RF) of the cascade impactor or the twin impinger was observed. A new inhalation index, effective index (EI), was proposed to evaluate the overall inhalation property by taking the residual fraction and RF into account. Tumbling granulation method provided the largest EI, and improved the inhalation property of original WEP. The EIs of granules prepared by tumbling granulation and slugging granulation with lower compaction pressure were larger than that of marketed disodium cromoglycate inhalation powder, Intal®.

doi:10.4155/fmc.11.114
Title:Inhaled antibiotics for Gram-negative respiratory infections
Authors:R. HudsonB. Olson Blair
Absract:Several disease states create conditions that lead to opportunistic Gram-negative respiratory infections. Inhalation is the most direct and, until recently, underutilized means of antimicrobial drug targeting for respiratory tract infections. All approved antimicrobial agents for administration by inhalation are indicated for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections in patients with cystic fibrosis. These inhaled therapies have directly contributed to a significant reduction in exacerbations and hospitalizations in this patient population over the last few decades. The relentless adaptation of pathogenic organisms to current treatment options demands that the pharmaceutical industry continue designing next-generation antimicrobial agents over 70 years after they were first introduced. Recent technological advances in inhalation devices and drug formulation techniques have broadened the scope of antimicrobial structural classes that can be investigated by inhalation; however, there is an urgent need to discover novel compounds with improved resistance profiles relative to those drugs that are already marketed. © 2011 Future Science Ltd.

pui:361401432
Title:The formulation factors of influencing the aerosolizing and deposition properties of dry powder inhalation
Authors:X. MiaoX. LiuJ.-F. SuC.-B. Wu
Absract:Recently, dry powder inhalation (DPI) has become a hotspot in the research area of pulmonary drug delivery (PDD). With the development of drug micronization technology and the emergence of innovative inhaler device, DPI has now been widely applied. This article introduces the formulation composition of DPI, which consists of micronized drug particles, carrier and inhaler device, and the formulation factors of influencing the aerosolizing and deposition properties are emphatically reviewed.

doi:10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110464
Title:Pharmacokinetic behavior of peramivir in the plasma and lungs of rats after trans-nasal aerosol inhalation and intravenous injection
Authors:H. DingS. WuX. DaiY. GaoY. NiuN. FangY. SongM. ZhangX. WangT. ChenG. ZhangJ. WuY. LiJ. Han
Absract:Peramivir, a neuraminidase inhibitor, was approved globally and is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated influenza in adults and children. However, the only approved intravenous formulation of peramivir limits its clinical application due to the need for the specialized dosing techniques and increases the risk of contracting influenza virus infection among healthcare professionals when dosing within a short distance to the patient. The purpose of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetic profile of peramivir in plasma and the lung of rats and to compare the profiles following administration through trans-nasal aerosol inhalation (0.0888, 0.1776, and 0.3552 mg/kg) and intravenous injection (30 mg/kg). The plasma concentration reached the C@sub_beginmax@sub_end within 1.0 h (upon inhalation) and decreased at a t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end of 6.71 and 10.9 h after inhalation and injection, respectively. The absolute bioavailability of peramivir after inhalation was 78.2 %. Overall, the pharmacokinetic exposure of peramivir in the lungs was higher than that in the plasma after aerosol inhalation. After inhalation, the C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of peramivir in the lung was achieved within 1.0 h, and the elimination of the drug was slower than in the case of intravenous injection with t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end values 1.81 h for injection and 5.72, 53.5, and 32.1 h for low, middle, and high doses administered through inhalation. The C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end values for peramivir in the lungs increased linearly with the increased inhalation dose. The results elucidate the pharmacokinetic process of peramivir after trans-nasal aerosol inhalation to rats and provide useful information for further rational application of this drug formulation.

pui:617897013
Title:Taking a systems approach to inhalation therapy development
Authors:A. Shanley
Absract:Peramivir, a neuraminidase inhibitor, was approved globally and is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated influenza in adults and children. However, the only approved intravenous formulation of peramivir limits its clinical application due to the need for the specialized dosing techniques and increases the risk of contracting influenza virus infection among healthcare professionals when dosing within a short distance to the patient. The purpose of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetic profile of peramivir in plasma and the lung of rats and to compare the profiles following administration through trans-nasal aerosol inhalation (0.0888, 0.1776, and 0.3552 mg/kg) and intravenous injection (30 mg/kg). The plasma concentration reached the C@sub_beginmax@sub_end within 1.0 h (upon inhalation) and decreased at a t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end of 6.71 and 10.9 h after inhalation and injection, respectively. The absolute bioavailability of peramivir after inhalation was 78.2 %. Overall, the pharmacokinetic exposure of peramivir in the lungs was higher than that in the plasma after aerosol inhalation. After inhalation, the C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of peramivir in the lung was achieved within 1.0 h, and the elimination of the drug was slower than in the case of intravenous injection with t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end values 1.81 h for injection and 5.72, 53.5, and 32.1 h for low, middle, and high doses administered through inhalation. The C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end values for peramivir in the lungs increased linearly with the increased inhalation dose. The results elucidate the pharmacokinetic process of peramivir after trans-nasal aerosol inhalation to rats and provide useful information for further rational application of this drug formulation.

doi:10.1106/5K48-LMBC-G469-QGF3
Title:Scintigraphic assessment of the regional distribution and kinetics of pharmaceuticals
Authors:M.S. BerridgeZ. Lee
Absract:A lesser known use of imaging studies in drug development is to determine the patterns of deposition, biodistribution, and regional kinetics of drugs in the body. This kind of study is of most interest when the drug is intended for local action following topical administration by inhalation. Imaging provides a convenient noninvasive method for observing initial deposition patterns and their variations caused by variables of the drug's formulation and delivery method. Though planar gamma imaging is the method that has most often been used, recent years have seen promising demonstrations of SPECT and PET imaging to provide three-dimensional and quantitative measurements of drug deposition. When the goal of a drug is direct local treatment of diseased tissue, delivery of that drug is an important therapeutic variable. Imaging studies allow the drug delivery to be measured and optimized before a drug formulation is committed to clinical trials.

doi:10.2165/11206620-000000000-00000
Title:Aztreonam lysine for inhalation solution: A guide to its use in cystic fibrosis
Authors:M.S. BerridgeZ. Lee
Absract:Aztreonam lysine for inhalation solution (AZLI) is a new option for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in patients with cystic fibrosis. When compared with placebo in clinical trials, AZLI improved respiratory symptoms, pulmonary function and sputumP. aeruginosa density, delayed the time to need for inhaled or intravenous antipseudomonal antibacterials when used after a course of tobramycin inhalation solution, and was generally well tolerated. © 2011 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

pui:358347090
Title:Improvement of inhalation profile of DPI formulations by carrier treatment with magnesium stearate
Authors:S. HazareM. Menon
Absract:In the present study, the applicability of magnesium stearate-treated lactose carrier particles was evaluated to improve the inhalation performance of catalase microspheres. Bovine liver catalase microspheres with different stabilizers were prepared by spray drying. For the surface modification, lactose products were treated with 1 and 2% magnesium stearate by manual mixing and gently passed through a # 60 size mesh. The results revealed that magnesium stearate can be applied as a performance improver for catalase microsphere based DPI formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.03.020
Title:Modeling the performance of carrier-based dry powder inhalation formulations: Where are we, and how to get there?
Authors:M.M.A. ElsayedA.O. Shalash
Absract:Development of carrier-based dry powder inhalation formulations follows till date empirical approaches. This is mainly underlain by numerousness of interplaying determinants of performance and complexity of involved interactions. Mathematical modeling helps elucidate such interactions and aids rational development of formulations. This article provides a critical overview of attempts made to model the performance of carrier-based dry powder inhalation formulations. The complex dependence of the performance on formulation properties is comprehensively discussed. A potential microstructure-based model is ultimately introduced.

doi:10.18093/0869-0189-2017-27-1-122-126
Title:Nebulized therapy in pediatrics
Authors:A.B. MalakhovN.G. Kolosova
Absract:Inhalation therapy is a modern and preferable method of drug delivery which is currently used for treatment of majority of acute and chronic respiratory diseases of children and adults. Recently, inhalation devices have evolved significantly. Scientific researches are focused on interaction between drug molecules and aerosol-producing device. Effectiveness of inhalation therapy depends generally on the drug, its dose and technical parameters of the device. Inhalation devices that are able to produce drug aerosol effectively have been used for treatment of most pediatric diseases. Advantages of this therapy are quick onset of the action, the possibility to reduce a drug dose due to higher drug concentration in the airways and to decrease the risk of adverse events and independence of the liver metabolism. Nebulizes therapy has been currently used for therapy of the majority of pediatric respiratory diseases. Drug formulation diversity and ability to combine ≥ 2 drugs could enhance the treatment efficacy.

pui:365981251
Title:Dry powder inhaler - Formulation aspects
Authors:C. KumaresanN. SubramanianM. Gover AntonirajK. Ruckmani
Absract:Now a days the pulmonary route serves as an excellent route for administration of various drugs by inhalation. Inhalation by pulmonary route is most successful, since it reduces the quantity of dose required from other routes of administration, also avoids hepatic first pass metabolism and only smaller fraction of drug gets metabolised by liver. Inhaler is used to treat respiratory diseases like chronic inflammatory disorder such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other lung diseases characterized by obstruction of airflow and shortness of breath. The deposition of adequate amount of drug in the lung causes relief from symptoms of asthma and COPD. The inhalation delivery can be done via nebulizers, metered dose inhalers (MDI) and dry powder inhalers (DPI). The basic inhalation therapy model explains about the formulation, drug delivery device and patient receiving drug. Pharmaceutical dry powder inhalers are facilitated as an aerosolised form for the application to the patients by inhalation to treat respiratory diseases.

doi:10.1016/j.pulmoe.2020.11.008
Title:Influence of inhalation device, active substance, and drug formulation on the compliance of patients with obstructive pulmonary diseases. A physicians’ perspective
Authors:S.G. TheodorakisG. KoliosV. TzilasD. Bouros
Absract:Aim: To investigate the perspective of physicians treating chronic airway diseases on the importance of device and substance characteristics influencing the compliance of patients with chronic obstructive airways diseases. Objective: We surveyed physicians’ perspective on the impact of device and substance characteristics on patients’ compliance. Methods: This study was carried out by running a structured questionnaire, to a total of 144 physicians, conducting personal interviews and evaluating answers on a scale from 1 for most to 6 for least important influencing parameter. Results: Overall, the most important parameters influencing patients’ compliance according to physicians’ perspective were rapid onset of action, type of inhalation device and duration of action. Adverse events were considered as the least important parameter. When COPD and asthma were examined separately, the most important parameters influencing compliance were rapid onset of action, ease of use and duration of action. Rapid onset of action was significantly more important in asthma than COPD. Conclusion: Onset and duration of action and ease of use were classified higher as important parameters to increase patients’ compliance, according to physicians’ perspective.

doi:10.4155/tde.14.35
Title:Formulation considerations for dry powder inhalers
Authors:E. CordtsH. Steckel
Absract:The market for inhalable dry powder medication has consistently grown over past years. Targeting the lungs has been recognized to offer several advantages compared with oral application of drugs. The successive development of inhalation products has led to advances in local treatment of different respiratory diseases, but has also demonstrated the possibility to utilize the lungs for systemic drug delivery. Since a dry powder inhalation product is always a combination of drug formulation and inhalation device, the requirements for the development of such a system may be particularly complex. Therefore, this review aims to give an overview of the necessary considerations for a successful dry powder inhaler development. © 2014 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.2174/1389201017666161028163506
Title:Aerosol delivery devices for the treatment of adult patients in acute and critical care
Authors:A. AriJ.B. Fink
Absract:Aerosolized medications are commonly used for the treatment of patients with pulmonary diseases in acute care. While there are many drug/device combinations available on the market, new devices have been developed in the past few years. Due to differences in their operation, performance and requirements for proper use, it is important to know how to use these aerosol devices effectively during inhalation therapy both in ambulatory and acute settings. However, clinicians focus on the drug formulation and a relatively little effort was made in improving the design of aerosol devices and individualizing inhalation therapy in acute and critically ill patients. Therefore, this paper reviews aerosol devices used for the treatment of patients with an emphasis on acute and critical care.

pui:13118650
Title:Characterization of spray patterns of inhalation aerosols using thin-layer chromatography
Authors:E.J. BenjaminJ.J. KroetenE. Shek
Absract:The spray pattern of an inhalation aerosol was characterized using photography and by observing the impaction pattern on a TLC plate. The aerosol plume was conical in shape, and its cross section increased with increasing distance from the actuator. Three puffs of the aerosol, at a distance of 3 cm between actuator and the TLC plate, produced a spot that had approximately the same diameter as the cross section of the aerosol plume at that distance from the actuator. The TLC technique with these parameters was selected to develop an assay characterizing the spray pattern of an inhalation aerosol because of its specificity, simplicity, and speed.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.ab01
Title:Electrostatic charge: We can measure it but does it really influence dry powder inhalation formulations?
Authors:D. TrainiS. HoeP.M. Young
Absract:The past two decades have seen the publication of a considerable amount of research, which have looked at the efficiency of medicinal aerosols delivered to the human lungs. Electrostatic forces of attraction and repulsion have been cited as potential influences in aerosol dispersion and deposition, resulting in investigations between particle size distribution, in vitro aerosol performance, and the electrostatic charge carried by the aerosol cloud. Possibly the most crucial question about aerosol electrostatics is whether the net aerosol charge measured has any influence on aerosol performance, or is simply a secondary parameter that may be used to identify other characteristics (i.e. drug dispersion mechanisms or crystallinity). The charge distribution of an aerosol tells us very little on its own, given the variety of tribocharging sources. The only way to extract information is to conduct a comparison between two sets of charge measurements where there is a single variable between them. The results presented imply that using the eNGI for DPIs, single-drug, drug-carrier, drug ratio-carrier and combination-drug formulation, the specific charge generated on the surface of dispersed drug particles was not influential in vitro aerosol performance, but it has provided another way to observe drug dispersion mechanisms (e.g. turbulence, detachment from carrier surface, deaggregation). However, without a workable in vitroin vivo correlation, it remains to be seen whether these results are in any way predictive of the relationship between charge distribution in an aerosol, and deposition in the human lungs, under realistic patient inhalation flow conditions.

pui:40050963
Title:Determination of delivered dose uniformity of formoterol fumarate powder for inhalation by HPLC
Authors:X.-S. PengW.-D. Xu
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To determine the delivered dose uniformity of formoterol fumarate powder for Inhalation. METHOD: A HPLC method was performed on Lichrospher 60 RP-select B column with the mobile phase of anhydrous absolute ethanol-phosphate buffer(pH 3.1) (16:84). The detection wavelength was 214nm. RESULTS: The calibration curve of formoterol fumarate was linear over the concentration range of 0.054-0.536 μg·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end (r = 0.999 9, n = 5). The average recoveries were 99.6% and 100.2% for 4.5 μg· dose@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 9.0 μg· dose@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively. CONCLUSION: The method is simple, accurate, stable and precise.

pui:13238970
Title:Acceptance of fenoterol powder for inhalation in children with bronchial asthma
Authors:V. Graff-Lonnevig
Absract:Eighteen children with perennial bronchial asthma, aged 10.3 years, were studied with respect to their attitude to inhalation of fenoterol, a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist, in powder form. Treatment with fenoterol powder was performed for 3 months and questionnaires were answered after 1 and 3 months. Almost all children showed a positive attitude towards handling capsules and inhaler. Inhaling powder was well accepted and the effect of the powder on asthma symptoms was regarded as good. Although the positive attitude to continue with powder inhalations declined somewhat at the end of the observation period, this type of therapy seemed to be well accepted by children.

pui:21058796
Title:Preparations for inhalation
Authors:J.M. Aiache
Absract:Eighteen children with perennial bronchial asthma, aged 10.3 years, were studied with respect to their attitude to inhalation of fenoterol, a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist, in powder form. Treatment with fenoterol powder was performed for 3 months and questionnaires were answered after 1 and 3 months. Almost all children showed a positive attitude towards handling capsules and inhaler. Inhaling powder was well accepted and the effect of the powder on asthma symptoms was regarded as good. Although the positive attitude to continue with powder inhalations declined somewhat at the end of the observation period, this type of therapy seemed to be well accepted by children.

pui:622779429
Title:Discovery and development of inhaled biopharmaceuticals
Authors:S. MooreK. HarperS. Marshall
Absract:With the rapid generation of biological screening data and the potential for innovative selection of compounds for screening, the importance of multi-vendor collaborations together with improvements in automation has never been greater in terms of helping the drug discovery community as a whole.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2011.04.004
Title:A critical view on lactose-based drug formulation and device studies for dry powder inhalation: Which are relevant and what interactions to expect?
Authors:A.H. De BoerH.K. ChanR. Price
Absract:Many years of research have not led to a profound knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the formulation and dispersion of carrier based mixtures for inhalation. Although it is well understood that the mixing is a key process in DPI carrier based formulation, there remains a limited understanding of how blending processes affect in-process material properties and the resulting distribution of the drug in the final dosage form. A great number of variables are considered relevant to the interfacial forces in adhesive mixtures, but their effects have mostly been investigated individually, without taking account of the influence they may have on each other. Interactions may be expected and without proper choices made and definitions given for all the variables involved, conclusions from studies on adhesive mixtures are of less relevance. By varying any of the variables that are not subject of the study, an opposite effect may be obtained. Currently, there is a strong focus on exploring techniques for the characterisation of drug and carrier surface properties that are believed to have an influence on the interparticulate forces in adhesive mixtures. For a number of surface properties it may be questioned whether they are really the key parameters to investigate however. Their orders of magnitude are subordinate to the effects they are supposed to have on the drug-to-carrier forces. Therefore, they seem rather indicators of other variability and their influence may be dominated by other effects. Finally, the relevance of inhaler design is often ignored. By using powerful inhalers, the effect of many variables of current concern may become less relevant. Carrier properties that are considered disadvantageous at present may even become desirable when a more appropriate type of dispersion force is applied. This can be shown for the effect of carrier surface rugosity when inertial separation forces are applied instead of the more widely applied lift and drag forces. Therefore, inhaler design should be taken into consideration when evaluating studies on adhesive mixtures. It should also become an integral part of powder formulation for inhalation. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.4155/tde.14.96
Title:Pharmaceutical aerosol electrostatics: A field with much potential for development
Authors:P.C. Lip Kwok
Absract:Many years of research have not led to a profound knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the formulation and dispersion of carrier based mixtures for inhalation. Although it is well understood that the mixing is a key process in DPI carrier based formulation, there remains a limited understanding of how blending processes affect in-process material properties and the resulting distribution of the drug in the final dosage form. A great number of variables are considered relevant to the interfacial forces in adhesive mixtures, but their effects have mostly been investigated individually, without taking account of the influence they may have on each other. Interactions may be expected and without proper choices made and definitions given for all the variables involved, conclusions from studies on adhesive mixtures are of less relevance. By varying any of the variables that are not subject of the study, an opposite effect may be obtained. Currently, there is a strong focus on exploring techniques for the characterisation of drug and carrier surface properties that are believed to have an influence on the interparticulate forces in adhesive mixtures. For a number of surface properties it may be questioned whether they are really the key parameters to investigate however. Their orders of magnitude are subordinate to the effects they are supposed to have on the drug-to-carrier forces. Therefore, they seem rather indicators of other variability and their influence may be dominated by other effects. Finally, the relevance of inhaler design is often ignored. By using powerful inhalers, the effect of many variables of current concern may become less relevant. Carrier properties that are considered disadvantageous at present may even become desirable when a more appropriate type of dispersion force is applied. This can be shown for the effect of carrier surface rugosity when inertial separation forces are applied instead of the more widely applied lift and drag forces. Therefore, inhaler design should be taken into consideration when evaluating studies on adhesive mixtures. It should also become an integral part of powder formulation for inhalation. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

pui:38133377
Title:Credit for Learning: Anaesthesia and surgical pain relief
Authors:P.C. Lip Kwok
Absract:Many years of research have not led to a profound knowledge of the mechanisms involved in the formulation and dispersion of carrier based mixtures for inhalation. Although it is well understood that the mixing is a key process in DPI carrier based formulation, there remains a limited understanding of how blending processes affect in-process material properties and the resulting distribution of the drug in the final dosage form. A great number of variables are considered relevant to the interfacial forces in adhesive mixtures, but their effects have mostly been investigated individually, without taking account of the influence they may have on each other. Interactions may be expected and without proper choices made and definitions given for all the variables involved, conclusions from studies on adhesive mixtures are of less relevance. By varying any of the variables that are not subject of the study, an opposite effect may be obtained. Currently, there is a strong focus on exploring techniques for the characterisation of drug and carrier surface properties that are believed to have an influence on the interparticulate forces in adhesive mixtures. For a number of surface properties it may be questioned whether they are really the key parameters to investigate however. Their orders of magnitude are subordinate to the effects they are supposed to have on the drug-to-carrier forces. Therefore, they seem rather indicators of other variability and their influence may be dominated by other effects. Finally, the relevance of inhaler design is often ignored. By using powerful inhalers, the effect of many variables of current concern may become less relevant. Carrier properties that are considered disadvantageous at present may even become desirable when a more appropriate type of dispersion force is applied. This can be shown for the effect of carrier surface rugosity when inertial separation forces are applied instead of the more widely applied lift and drag forces. Therefore, inhaler design should be taken into consideration when evaluating studies on adhesive mixtures. It should also become an integral part of powder formulation for inhalation. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1248/cpb.51.1455
Title:Effect of surface covering of lactose carrier particles on dry powder inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate
Authors:K. IidaY. HayakawaH. OkamotoK. DanjoH. Luenberger
Absract:The effect of the surface covering of lactose carrier particles on the dry powder inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate was investigated. Lactose carrier surfaces were covered with sucrose tristearate (J-1803F) by a high-speed elliptical-rotor-type powder mixer (Theta-Composer®). In the present study, drug/carrier powder mixtures were prepared consisting of micronized salbutamol sulfate and lactose carriers with various particle surface conditions prepared by surface covering. These powder mixtures were aerosolized by a Jethaler®, and the in vitro inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate were evaluated by a twin impinger. Compared with the powder mixed with uncovered lactose carrier, the in vitro inhalation properties of the powder mixture prepared using the surface covering lactose carrier were significantly different, showing that the in vitro inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate were improved. In vitro inhalation properties increased with the percentage of J-1803F added. Using this surface covering system would thus be valuable for increasing the inhalation properties of dry powder inhalation with lactose carrier particles. © 2003 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

pui:2007882725
Title:Spray drying as an enabling technology for inhalation drug delivery
Authors:S. SaldanhaB. FernandesJ. Ventura
Absract:The effect of the surface covering of lactose carrier particles on the dry powder inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate was investigated. Lactose carrier surfaces were covered with sucrose tristearate (J-1803F) by a high-speed elliptical-rotor-type powder mixer (Theta-Composer®). In the present study, drug/carrier powder mixtures were prepared consisting of micronized salbutamol sulfate and lactose carriers with various particle surface conditions prepared by surface covering. These powder mixtures were aerosolized by a Jethaler®, and the in vitro inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate were evaluated by a twin impinger. Compared with the powder mixed with uncovered lactose carrier, the in vitro inhalation properties of the powder mixture prepared using the surface covering lactose carrier were significantly different, showing that the in vitro inhalation properties of salbutamol sulfate were improved. In vitro inhalation properties increased with the percentage of J-1803F added. Using this surface covering system would thus be valuable for increasing the inhalation properties of dry powder inhalation with lactose carrier particles. © 2003 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1183/1393003.congress-2017.PA2422
Title:VENTASWITCH study: Switching from Ventavis (iloprost) V10 to V20 improves inhalation behaviour in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
Authors:M. RichterB. StollfuuA. RoitenbergS. GerlachF. KleinjungV. GraeffS. BerghausC. MullerA. Ghofrani
Absract:Ventavis is an effective therapy for patients with PAH, improving exercise capacity and symptoms. Ventavis nebuliser solution for inhalation is available as 10 μg/mL (V10) and 20 μg/mL (V20) formulations, administered using the I-Neb nebuliser. Some patients experience extended inhalation times using V10 and are at risk of incomplete inhalations and reduced inhalation frequency. VENTASWITCH (NCT02826252) was a local, observational, case-crossover study of inhalation behaviour in 64 PAH patients enrolled in the German Ventavis patient support programme maintained on a 5 μg dose and switched from V10 to V20. Primary outcomes were mean daily proportion of complete inhalations and inhalation frequency. Secondary outcomes were mean daily inhalation duration per session and safety. Data were collected using digital recording in the device and compared for V10 (3 months retrospectively) and V20 formulations (3 months prospectively). Using V20 there were significant increases in mean daily proportion of complete inhalations and inhalation frequency, and a significant decrease in mean daily inhalation duration per session (Table). Switching PAH patients from the Ventavis V10 to V20 formulation resulted in significant improvements in all primary and secondary outcomes without increasing AEs, suggesting a positive impact on inhalation behaviour, which may improve adherence to therapy. ∗Exploratory p-value, 2-sided sign test.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0787
Title:Inhalation adjuvant therapy for lung cancer
Authors:D. YiT.S. Wiedmann
Absract:Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of new cancer cases and also is the number one cause of cancer death in both male and females in the United States and the world. Lung cancer is histologically separated into either small-cell (SCLC) or nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC is much more common, and can occur in the periphery (adenocarcinomas) or central airways (squamous cell carcinomas). Methods: The literature pertaining to lung cancer adjuvant therapy and inhalation lung cancer chemoprevention was reviewed. Results: It is argued that inhalation of chemotherapy as an adjuvant in Stage II NSCC and inhalation of chemopreventive agents in Stage I adenocarcinomas are direct paths to improve lung cancer therapy as well as demonstrate the ultility of inhalation therapy. Conclusions: If successful, inhalation delivery may be extended to the treatment of other types of lung cancer. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2010.

pui:26175402
Title:Ozone-friendly alternative in the inhalation therapy
Authors:D. YiT.S. Wiedmann
Absract:Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of new cancer cases and also is the number one cause of cancer death in both male and females in the United States and the world. Lung cancer is histologically separated into either small-cell (SCLC) or nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC is much more common, and can occur in the periphery (adenocarcinomas) or central airways (squamous cell carcinomas). Methods: The literature pertaining to lung cancer adjuvant therapy and inhalation lung cancer chemoprevention was reviewed. Results: It is argued that inhalation of chemotherapy as an adjuvant in Stage II NSCC and inhalation of chemopreventive agents in Stage I adenocarcinomas are direct paths to improve lung cancer therapy as well as demonstrate the ultility of inhalation therapy. Conclusions: If successful, inhalation delivery may be extended to the treatment of other types of lung cancer. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2010.

pui:20306785
Title:Lactose in inhalational drugs
Authors:J.J. Dijksterhuis
Absract:Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of new cancer cases and also is the number one cause of cancer death in both male and females in the United States and the world. Lung cancer is histologically separated into either small-cell (SCLC) or nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). NSCLC is much more common, and can occur in the periphery (adenocarcinomas) or central airways (squamous cell carcinomas). Methods: The literature pertaining to lung cancer adjuvant therapy and inhalation lung cancer chemoprevention was reviewed. Results: It is argued that inhalation of chemotherapy as an adjuvant in Stage II NSCC and inhalation of chemopreventive agents in Stage I adenocarcinomas are direct paths to improve lung cancer therapy as well as demonstrate the ultility of inhalation therapy. Conclusions: If successful, inhalation delivery may be extended to the treatment of other types of lung cancer. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2010.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(98)00202-6
Title:Effect of surface morphology of carrier lactose on dry powder inhalation property of pranlukast hydrate
Authors:Y. KawashimaT. SeriganoT. HinoH. YamamotoH. Takeuchi
Absract:The effects of surface morphology of carrier lactose on dry powder inhalation (DPI) property of pranlukast hydrate (PH) were investigated. The PH was mixed with 9-fold weights of carrier lactose, i.e. pharmatose 325M, 200M, DCL-11, DCL-21, spray dried amorphous (SDGa), -crystallized (SDGc) lactoses and fluidized bed granulated lactose (FBG) with various surface morphologies. These mixed powders were aerosolized by a Spinhaler(®) and in vitro deposition properties were evaluated by a twin impinger. Carrier lactose with higher specific surface area, i.e. surface roughness, like FBG emitted effectively PH particles from the inhalation device, whereas they reduced the respirable fraction captured in the twin impinger, resulting in lower inhalation efficiency, due to strong adhesion of PH to the carrier lactose. The SDGc having lots of microscopical projection on the surface increased the respirable particle percent of the emitted particles, improving the inhalation efficiency. The SDGa, smoothed sphere particle, did not so improve the inhalation efficiency as expected, owing to fairly strong adhesion between PH and lactose particles. Those finding indicated that the separation of drug particles from carrier lactose was a determining step to improve inhalation process for DPIs, as far as lactose particles emitted satisfactorily PH particles from the inhalation device. The surface morphology designed like SDGc, having fairly large surface area with microscopically increased surface roughness was desirable to improve inhalation property of DPI. Copyright (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.

pui:36763507
Title:Dry powder inhaler is a substitute for meter dose inhaler (MDI) in patients with incorrect inhalation technique
Authors:S. Alsaffar
Absract:The purpose of this study is to evaluate the inhalation technique of patients using metered dose inhalers (MDI), and whether demonstration and training improves the inhalation technique of pts with incorrect technique. It also, looks into the solution for pts who fail to master the correct inhalation technique after demonstration and training of standard technique. For this study, 50 patients with Asthma or (COPD) were selected at random, and examined their knowledge about inhalation therapy as well as their technique in inhaling aerosol from MDI. All patients used MDI for treatment of their breathlessness (36% less than 5 years, 40% 5-10 years and 24% 10-25 years). Most of them considered inhalation therapy the most effective in breathlessness treatment. An average of one canister of 200 doses of bronchodilator was used per patients over a period of 10 days. The inhaler technique was found to be incorrect in 44 patients (88%). patients have made several errors, the most frequent errors were, rapid inhalation with failure in synchronization in 88%, multiple actuation of the canister 74%, and absence of breath-hold at the end of inspiration in 66%. After the demonstration and training of the correct inhalation technique, improvement was complete in 4 patients (8%), the number of errors decreased to 57% (from 148 to 63), 20 patients with a high score errors, who had difficulty to perform the correct MDI inhalation technique after demonstration and training, were given dry powder inhaler, and taught how to use it. Re-evaluation four weeks later showed that all 20 patients (100%) had correct performance of inhalation technique using dry powdered inhaler. The study concludes that asthma and COPD patients are not using the MDIs correctly, even after demonstration and training of the correct MDIs inhalation technique. Hence dry powder inhaler can be a solution for these patients.

pui:28066490
Title:Beclometason and salbutamol pressurised metered-dose preparations for inhalation: Market surveillance study of the uniformity of the metered dose by use of the new apparatus of Ph. Eur. III
Authors:I. LiebenbergerR. MacasA. Mayrhofer
Absract:Six different above-mentioned drug products were tested for the uniformity of metered dose by use of the instrument described in the new European Pharmacopoeia Monograph 'Preparations for Inhalation: Pressurised Metered-Dose Preparations for Inhalation' (lit. 1). The final assays were performed by HPLC and showed an excellent suitability of this instrument and a satisfying quality for all drug products like that with a marketing authorisation in Austria.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2020.05.003
Title:Post-inhalation cough with therapeutic aerosols: Formulation considerations
Authors:S. SahakijpijarnH.D.C. SmythD.P. MillerJ.G. Weers
Absract:This review provides an assessment of post-inhalation cough with therapeutic aerosols. Factors that increase cough may be mitigated through design of the drug, formulation, and device. The incidence of cough is typically less than 5% for drugs with a nominal dose less than 1 mg, including asthma and COPD therapeutics. Cough increases markedly as the dose approaches 100 mg. This is due to changes in the composition of epithelial lining fluid (e.g., increases in osmolality, proton concentration). Whether an individual exhibits cough depends on their degree of sensitization to mechanical and chemical stimuli. Hypersensitivity is increased when the drug, formulation or disease result in increases in lung inflammation. Cough related to changes in epithelial lining fluid composition can be limited by using insoluble neutral forms of drugs and excipients.

doi:10.1378/chest.90.5.726
Title:Increase in bronchial responsiveness to methacholine and late asthmatic response after the inhalation of ultrasonically nebulized distilled water
Authors:S. MattoliA. ForesiG.M. Corbo
Absract:We studied ten subjects who had an asthmatic response after the inhalation of ultrasonically nebulized distilled water and did not show any refractory period to repeated challenge with such water. The change in responsiveness to methacholine after inhalation of distilled water and the occurrence of any water-induced late asthmatic response were investigated on separate days. All of the tested subjects showed a significant increase in bronchial responsiveness to methacholine after prior stimulation with ultrasonically nebulized distilled water, which waned within two hours in eight of them. The other two subjects showed a progressive increase in responsiveness to methacholine, and they also had a further reduction in the caliber of the airways three to four hours after inhalation of distilled water. The late responses were less severe than the initial responses and lasted four to five hours. After the spontaneous recovery, no significant increase in responsiveness to methacholine was detected. Our results confirm previous observations on hyperresponsiveness induced by ultrasonically nebulized distilled water and demonstrate the occurrence of late reactions after inhalation of such water.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2011.05.003
Title:Lactose characteristics and the generation of the aerosol
Authors:G. PilcerN. WauthozK. Amighi
Absract:The delivery efficiency of dry-powder products for inhalation is dependent upon the drug formulation, the inhaler device, and the inhalation technique. Dry powder formulations are generally produced by mixing the micronised drug particles with larger carrier particles. These carrier particles are commonly lactose. The aerosol performance of a powder is highly dependent on the lactose characteristics, such as particle size distribution and shape and surface properties. Because lactose is the main component in these formulations, its selection is a crucial determinant of drug deposition into the lung, as interparticle forces may be affected by the carrier-particle properties. Therefore, the purpose of this article is to review the various grades of lactose, their production, and the methods of their characterisation. The origin of their adhesive and cohesive forces and their influence on aerosol generation are described, and the impact of the physicochemical properties of lactose on carrier-drug dispersion is discussed in detail. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

pui:28135946
Title:Accidental intravenous administration of racemic adrenalin in children: Three case reports
Authors:B. ZellerH.-J. Bangstad
Absract:The inhalation of racemic adrenalin is an important part of the treatment of inflammatory airway obstruction in children. In Norway during the last few years there have been several cases of adrenal solutions intended only for inhalation being accidentally administered as intravenous injections. The solution for inhalation contains an adrenalin concentration 110 times greater than the adrenalin intended for emergency use (0.1 mg/ml). The instant consequences of intravenous injections of inhalation adrenalin include arterial hypertension followed by hypotension, cardiac ischemia and cardiac insufficiency, pulmonary oedema, and respiratory failure and the need for artificial ventilation. The clinical picture in the three patients we describe was very dramatic. The injected doses were 0.16-1.1 mg l-adrenalin per kg body weight. All children survived without sequelae. In order to reduce the risk of accidentally administering intravenous injections of adrenalin intended for inhalation a set of guidelines is being proposed.

pui:34208518
Title:Effects of different carriers on flowability of inhalation powders
Authors:F.-Q. HuH. YuanY. DaiS.-Y. Hu
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of different carriers on flowability of inhalation powders for selecting the suitable carrier and preparation technique. METHOD: The micronised salbutamal sulfate was mixed with various lactose carriers. The inhalation powder formulations were further prepared by spray drying with lactose, mannitol or glycin, containing poloxamer or not. The powder flowability was evaluated by determining the reposed angle. RESULT: The recrystallized lactose had smaller reposed angle than that of general lactose. The inhalation performance of the powder prepared by spray drying using lactose or glycin carder was improved by addition of poloxamer. For the addition of 2% poloxamer to mannitol carrier, there was the smallest reposed angle than the others. CONCLUSION: The fine dry powder inhalers was prepared by spray drying with addition of poloxamer.

pui:29012489
Title:Formoterol (Oxis® Turbohaler®)
Authors:A.J. Scheen
Absract:Formoterol, commercialized by Astra under the trade name Oxis®, is a new potent and selective agonist of beta-2 adrenergic receptors, which is used with a specific device (Turbohaler®) allowing effective inhalation. Bronchodilatation occurs rapidly, within 1-3 minutes after inhalation, and lasts about 12 hours after the administration of a unique dose. Oxis® Turbohaler® is indicated to reduce symptoms associated with bronchial obstruction in asthmatic patients when the control of asthma is not achieved with inhaled corticoid therapy. It is not indicated for the treatment of acute crisis. It is presented as powder vials for inhalation (4.5 or 9 μg per dose). The usual dose in adults is 1-2 inhalations 1-2 times per day, in the morning and/or in the evening (bedtime administration should be recommended in case of nocturnal asthma). There is not enough data for treating children. The lowest dose allowing adequate control of asthma should be selected for chronic treatment.

pui:14222162
Title:Pretreatment of exercise-induced asthma in children using disodium cromoglycate and fenoterol inhalation powder
Authors:A. BundgaardD. BuchA. SchmidtN. Bach Mortensen
Absract:The effect of pretreatment with inhalation powder containing fenoterol, sodium cromoglycate, fenoterol plus sodium cromoglycate and placebo, in the prevention of exercise-induced asthma was compared in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over investigation including 17 children with exercise-induced asthma. Six minutes of treadmill running was carried out in a climate chamber 30 minutes after pretreatment of the four test days. The post-exercise fall in PEF after pretreatment with fenoterol was 7%, with sodium cromoglycate 20%, with fenoterol plus sodium cromoglycate 6% and after placebo 27%. Both sodium and cromoglycate and fenoterol provided protection against exercise-induced asthma (p <0.05 and p <0.01). Fenoterol gave significantly better protection than sodium cromoglycate (p <0.001), and it is concluded that the treatment of choice for the prevention of exercise-induced asthma is the inhalation of a beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist.

doi:10.4155/tde.12.154
Title:Conference Report: 1st Medicon Valley Inhalation Symposium
Authors:O. Lastow
Absract:The 1st Medicon Valley Inhalation Symposium was arranged by the Medicon Valley Inhalation Consortium. It was held at the Medicon Village site, which is the former AstraZeneca site in Lund, Sweden. It was a 1-day symposium focused on inhaled drug delivery and inhalation product development. A total of 90 delegates listened to 15 speakers. The program was organized to follow the value chain of an inhalation product development. The benefits and future opportunities of inhaled drug delivery were discussed together with some new disease areas that can be targeted with inhalation. The pros and cons of the two main formulation types; dry powder and liquid formulations, were discussed by a panel. The different requirements of the drug molecules from a pharmacology, chemical and physical perspective were explained. The modeling of the physics inside an inhaler was demonstrated and the potential strategic benefits of device design were highlighted together with the many challenges of formulation manufacturing. Lung deposition mechanisms and the difficulties of the generic bioequivalence concept were discussed. Using an anatomically correct impactor inlet is a valuable tool in lung deposition predictions and the planning of clinical trials. The management of the biological material generated in clinical studies is key to successful studies. © 2013 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ddtec.2005.05.020
Title:Trends in the technology-driven development of new inhalation devices
Authors:H.W. FrijlinkA.H. de Boer
Absract:Inhalation technology diverges rapidly along various lines. A variety of technological solutions are currently under development to overcome the many problems related to adequate aerosol generation both for dry powder inhalation systems and for liquid inhalation systems. Many of the improvements are related to the fine particle fraction in the generated aerosol, particularly its dependency on the patients' inspiratory flow profile and the velocity of the aerosol. © 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

pui:351040222
Title:Pharmacodynamic evaluation of interferon α-2b inhalation powder by RT-PCR
Authors:R.-G. JiangL.-Q. WangH. LiuC.-L. Wang
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of recombinant human interferon α-2b (IFN α-2b) inhalation powder. METHODS: 2′,5′-Oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS) was used as a surrogate marker for IFN α-2b induction, and a sensitive and semi-quantitative method was established by use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT - PCR) for the determination of OAS1 and OAS2 forms of OAS mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. RESULTS: OAS1 mRNA concentration was equivalent after IFN α-2b was administrated by injection and inhalation, but the later administration route resulted in a higher OAS2 mRNA level. CONCLUSION: IFN α-2b inhalation powder is promising to be a non-invasive systemic delivery route with excellent compliance.

pui:29331712
Title:Hygienics in particular can be improved. Inhalation and pharmaceutical care
Authors:S.M. Dreijervan Der GlasN. Van Horssen
Absract:Pharmaceutical care for patients with asthma or COPD who have inhalation therapy should pay attention tot he right handling of liquids for inhalation. The small packages of corticosteroid suspensions have to be emptied completely before use. Mixtures with salbutamol and ipratropiumbromide can be prepared in the pharmacy for those patients who are not capable to do that themselves. In most cases dilution with sodium chloride solution is not necessary. If so, sterile ampuoles of 10 ml should be used or a sodium chloride solution with benzalkonjum chloride as a preservative could be prepared in the pharmacy. A Standard Operating Procedure for the dispensing of liquids for inhalation is added.

doi:10.1089/jam.1996.9.215
Title:Effect of inhalation flow rate on the dosing characteristics of dry powder inhaler (DPI) and metered dose inhaler (MDI) products
Authors:D.L. RossR.K. Schultz
Absract:Both the dose delivered from the device and the particle size of the medication are important parameters for inhalation products because they influence the amount of drug that is delivered to the patient's lung. The inspiratory flow rate may vary from dose to dose in a given patient and between patients. The Marple-Miller Cascade Impactor, a new multistage inertial impactor that operates at two flow rates (30 and 60 liters/min) with comparable particle size cut-offs, provides a means to study the effect of inhalation flow rate on the particle size distributions of inhalation products. The medication delivery, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), and fine particle mass were determined, in a randomized fashion, for albuterol, beclomethasone, budesonide, and terbutaline in both metered dose inhaler (MDI) and dry powder inhaler (DPI) products as a function of flow rate. In all cases, independent of drug or device used, the MDI products had a more reproducible respirable dose than the breath-actuated DPI products tested as a function of inhalation flow rate.

doi:10.4155/fmc.11.132
Title:Inhalation by design
Authors:L.H. JonesA.D. Hughes
Absract:Both the dose delivered from the device and the particle size of the medication are important parameters for inhalation products because they influence the amount of drug that is delivered to the patient's lung. The inspiratory flow rate may vary from dose to dose in a given patient and between patients. The Marple-Miller Cascade Impactor, a new multistage inertial impactor that operates at two flow rates (30 and 60 liters/min) with comparable particle size cut-offs, provides a means to study the effect of inhalation flow rate on the particle size distributions of inhalation products. The medication delivery, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), and fine particle mass were determined, in a randomized fashion, for albuterol, beclomethasone, budesonide, and terbutaline in both metered dose inhaler (MDI) and dry powder inhaler (DPI) products as a function of flow rate. In all cases, independent of drug or device used, the MDI products had a more reproducible respirable dose than the breath-actuated DPI products tested as a function of inhalation flow rate.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(99)00252-5
Title:Inhalation of tobramycin in cystic fibrosis Part 2: Optimization of the tobramycin solution for a jet and an ultrasonic nebulizer
Authors:P.P.H. Le BrunA.H. De BoerD. GjaltemaP. HagedoornH.G.M. HeijermanH.W. Frijlink
Absract:The inhalation of tobramycin is part of current cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy. Local therapy with inhaled antibiotics has demonstrated improvements in pulmonary function. Current inhalation therapy is limited by the available drug formulations in combination with the nebulization time. The aim of this study is to develop a highly concentrated tobramycin solution for inhalation. Several tobramycin solutions, ranging from 5 to 30% (m/v), were compared after aerosolation with a jet and with an ultrasonic nebulizer. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis were used for characterization of the aerosolized solutions. The output rate was determined in volume and mass output per minute. From the output rate measurements, it was concluded that a 20% tobramycin solution is the optimal and maximal concentration to be aerosolized. The jet nebulizer was most suitable. Using the jet nebulizer and the 20% solution, it is possible to administer a dosage of 1000 mg tobramycin by inhalation within 30 min. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

pui:20243523
Title:What's new in products and services
Authors:N.M. Davis
Absract:The inhalation of tobramycin is part of current cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy. Local therapy with inhaled antibiotics has demonstrated improvements in pulmonary function. Current inhalation therapy is limited by the available drug formulations in combination with the nebulization time. The aim of this study is to develop a highly concentrated tobramycin solution for inhalation. Several tobramycin solutions, ranging from 5 to 30% (m/v), were compared after aerosolation with a jet and with an ultrasonic nebulizer. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis were used for characterization of the aerosolized solutions. The output rate was determined in volume and mass output per minute. From the output rate measurements, it was concluded that a 20% tobramycin solution is the optimal and maximal concentration to be aerosolized. The jet nebulizer was most suitable. Using the jet nebulizer and the 20% solution, it is possible to administer a dosage of 1000 mg tobramycin by inhalation within 30 min. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

pui:33062905
Title:Estradiol for inhalation
Authors:B. Fessler
Absract:The inhalation of tobramycin is part of current cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy. Local therapy with inhaled antibiotics has demonstrated improvements in pulmonary function. Current inhalation therapy is limited by the available drug formulations in combination with the nebulization time. The aim of this study is to develop a highly concentrated tobramycin solution for inhalation. Several tobramycin solutions, ranging from 5 to 30% (m/v), were compared after aerosolation with a jet and with an ultrasonic nebulizer. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis were used for characterization of the aerosolized solutions. The output rate was determined in volume and mass output per minute. From the output rate measurements, it was concluded that a 20% tobramycin solution is the optimal and maximal concentration to be aerosolized. The jet nebulizer was most suitable. Using the jet nebulizer and the 20% solution, it is possible to administer a dosage of 1000 mg tobramycin by inhalation within 30 min. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

pui:46173333
Title:Principles of metered-dose inhaler design: Discussion
Authors:AtkinsNewmanDhandSmaldoneK. NikanderLeachFinkAnderson
Absract:The inhalation of tobramycin is part of current cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy. Local therapy with inhaled antibiotics has demonstrated improvements in pulmonary function. Current inhalation therapy is limited by the available drug formulations in combination with the nebulization time. The aim of this study is to develop a highly concentrated tobramycin solution for inhalation. Several tobramycin solutions, ranging from 5 to 30% (m/v), were compared after aerosolation with a jet and with an ultrasonic nebulizer. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis were used for characterization of the aerosolized solutions. The output rate was determined in volume and mass output per minute. From the output rate measurements, it was concluded that a 20% tobramycin solution is the optimal and maximal concentration to be aerosolized. The jet nebulizer was most suitable. Using the jet nebulizer and the 20% solution, it is possible to administer a dosage of 1000 mg tobramycin by inhalation within 30 min. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

pui:626383392
Title:Capsule-based inhalers: Part I
Authors:F. Díez
Absract:The inhalation of tobramycin is part of current cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy. Local therapy with inhaled antibiotics has demonstrated improvements in pulmonary function. Current inhalation therapy is limited by the available drug formulations in combination with the nebulization time. The aim of this study is to develop a highly concentrated tobramycin solution for inhalation. Several tobramycin solutions, ranging from 5 to 30% (m/v), were compared after aerosolation with a jet and with an ultrasonic nebulizer. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis were used for characterization of the aerosolized solutions. The output rate was determined in volume and mass output per minute. From the output rate measurements, it was concluded that a 20% tobramycin solution is the optimal and maximal concentration to be aerosolized. The jet nebulizer was most suitable. Using the jet nebulizer and the 20% solution, it is possible to administer a dosage of 1000 mg tobramycin by inhalation within 30 min. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1007/s40265-020-01307-x
Title:Levodopa Inhalation Powder: A Review in Parkinson’s Disease
Authors:J. Paik
Absract:Levodopa inhalation powder (Inbrija@sup_begin®@sup_end) is approved for the intermittent treatment of OFF episodes in patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) treated with levodopa/dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor (LD-DCI) in the EU and specifically with carbidopa/levodopa in the USA. The approved dosage is 84 mg taken as needed up to five times a day. Administered via a breath-actuated inhaler, this formulation enables levodopa to bypass the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and, instead, rapidly enter the bloodstream through the pulmonary system. In the 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase III SPAN-PD trial, as-needed levodopa inhalation powder 84 mg improved motor symptoms during OFF periods in PD patients (aged 30–86 years) treated with levodopa and carbidopa or benserazide. The likelihood of achieving an ON state 60 min postdose was significantly higher in the levodopa inhalation powder than the placebo group, with most patients in the levodopa inhalation powder group experiencing improvements in PD symptoms. Findings from longer-term, 52-week phase III studies were consistent with those from the SPAN-PD trial with regards to the treatment of OFF episodes. Levodopa inhalation powder was generally well tolerated and did not noticeably affect pulmonary function in PD patients. Providing a nonintrusive, convenient treatment method, levodopa inhalation powder is a promising option for the intermittent treatment of OFF episodes in patients with PD treated with a LD-DCI.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.11.072
Title:Searching for physiologically relevant in vitro dissolution techniques for orally inhaled drugs
Authors:S. RadivojevS. ZellnitzA. PaudelE. Fröhlich
Absract:Inhalation is the preferred route for the treatment of lung diseases. More recently, also formulations for systemic treatment have been developed. For efficient development of inhalation products it is necessary to identify a link between particle parameters and in vivo performance. Such a relation exists for oral drugs where dissolution and permeation across Caco-2 monolayers are correlated to in vivo absorption. By contrast, the only in vitro parameter with established link to absorption for inhalation is particle size. In vitro dissolution could be another important parameter because low solubility determines bioavailability of inhaled drugs. The review highlights the importance of dissolution for drug availability in general and lists important differences in dissolution testing of oral and inhaled formulations. Dissolution testing protocols are summarized with focus on the composition of the various fluids, which are used to mimic particle dissolution in the deep lung. Finally, a role of in silico modelling in identification of physiologically relevant dissolution fluids and in in vitro in vivo correlation is suggested.

pui:19176213
Title:Physical stability and inhalation behaviour of mechanically micronized and spray dried disodium cromoglycate in different humidities
Authors:P. VidgrenM. VidgrenP. Paronen
Absract:Inhalation is the preferred route for the treatment of lung diseases. More recently, also formulations for systemic treatment have been developed. For efficient development of inhalation products it is necessary to identify a link between particle parameters and in vivo performance. Such a relation exists for oral drugs where dissolution and permeation across Caco-2 monolayers are correlated to in vivo absorption. By contrast, the only in vitro parameter with established link to absorption for inhalation is particle size. In vitro dissolution could be another important parameter because low solubility determines bioavailability of inhaled drugs. The review highlights the importance of dissolution for drug availability in general and lists important differences in dissolution testing of oral and inhaled formulations. Dissolution testing protocols are summarized with focus on the composition of the various fluids, which are used to mimic particle dissolution in the deep lung. Finally, a role of in silico modelling in identification of physiologically relevant dissolution fluids and in in vitro in vivo correlation is suggested.

pui:13089466
Title:Combination of salbutamol inhalation powder and tablets in asthma
Authors:K. GrimwoodD.M. FergussonK.P. Dawson
Absract:A double-blind cross-over trial was conducted to assess the effects of salbutamol administered by inhalation of dry powder, by tablet, and combined tablet and inhalational powder in a sample of 18 severely asthmatic children. The combined treatment had a rapid onset of effect and sustained action. The onset of action of the tablet treatment was less rapid but sustained, whereas the inhalation powder treatment had rapid onset but fairly short action. The response characteristics of the combined treatment were shown to be an additive function of its tablet and inhaled components. Children on the combined or tablet treatments showed a significant, but slight, increase in pulse rate. Few other side effects were observed.

doi:10.1016/0013-9351(82)90028-7
Title:Inhalation simulation and the effects of lung environmental conditions on consumer aerosol products and NaCl aerosol
Authors:M.K. HalbertM.K. MazumderR.L. Bond
Absract:The use of inhalation simulation apparatus to determine the effects of conditions of 98% relative humidity and 37°C temperature on the size distribution of aerosol particulates is demonstrated. Ten common household and cosmetic aerosol products and NaCl aerosol were sampled from the apparatus by the Single Particle Aerodynamic Relaxation Time (SPART) analyzer. Some products, such as the spray powder antidepressant, spray lubricant and furniture polish, showed little increase in count and mass median aerodynamic diameter under humid conditions. The size distribution of other products, such as oven cleaner, air freshener, insecticide, and pump spray antiperspirant, shifted such that the mass median aerodynamic diameters increased two- to fourfold.

pui:612983338
Title:Effective delivery of medications to your asthmatic patients
Authors:S. Devadason
Absract:Aerosol therapy is currently the primary delivery method for asthma medications to children, apart from leukotriene antagonists which are administered in oral tablet form. The selection of the most appropriate inhalation device can be difficult, particularly when treating infants and very young children. Device selection can be dependent on the drug formulation to be administered and the area of the airways to be targeted for optimal therapeutic effect. In infants and preschool children, the transition from mask to mouthpiece and the ability to learn how to perform specific inhalation manoeuvres, rather than simple tidal breathing, will also play a role in the choice of device. Finally lack of adherence of both parents and children to prescribed therapeutic regimens is an important issue, and the most difficult to address. The two choices of delivery device for asthmatic children under 6 years of age are (a) pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) with valved holding chambers (spacers) or (b) nebulisers [1]. During acute, severe asthma exacerbations, equivalent clinical outcomes have been shown when comparing bronchodilator administration using pMDI-spacers and nebulisers in both adults and children [2-4]. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) may be considered as alternatives to pMDIs and nebulisers for children and adolescents who can consistently generate inspiratory flows of more than 30 to 60 L per minute [5]. Face masks are required when delivering aerosols to infants and preschool, however drug delivery varies considerably and factors such as leakage around face-mask, lack of co-operation and crying can influence the lung dose significantly [6-8], and the use of a mouthpiece is recommended as early as possible [9]. In children who are able to use a mouthpiece consistently, training in specific inspiratory manoeuvres, such as maximal inhalation techniques, may be attempted in place of tidal breathing. Maximal inhalations can be used for pMDIs with valved spacers to reduce the time taken for aerosol administration, and may increase the amount of drug delivered to the lungs [10]. Single maximal inhalations should be used for (a) pMDIs without spacers, (b) pMDIs with nonvalved spacers and (c) DPIs, as tidal breathing is not appropriate for these devices. It is important to ensure that patients are able to perform the more complex inhalation techniques required for these devices consistently, and that training in the use of these devices is reinforced.

pui:5511863
Title:Proceedings: The use of an image analyser to determine the particle size distribution of salbutamol for use in metered dose inhalation aerosols.
Authors:G.W. HallworthP. Barnes
Absract:Aerosol therapy is currently the primary delivery method for asthma medications to children, apart from leukotriene antagonists which are administered in oral tablet form. The selection of the most appropriate inhalation device can be difficult, particularly when treating infants and very young children. Device selection can be dependent on the drug formulation to be administered and the area of the airways to be targeted for optimal therapeutic effect. In infants and preschool children, the transition from mask to mouthpiece and the ability to learn how to perform specific inhalation manoeuvres, rather than simple tidal breathing, will also play a role in the choice of device. Finally lack of adherence of both parents and children to prescribed therapeutic regimens is an important issue, and the most difficult to address. The two choices of delivery device for asthmatic children under 6 years of age are (a) pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) with valved holding chambers (spacers) or (b) nebulisers [1]. During acute, severe asthma exacerbations, equivalent clinical outcomes have been shown when comparing bronchodilator administration using pMDI-spacers and nebulisers in both adults and children [2-4]. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) may be considered as alternatives to pMDIs and nebulisers for children and adolescents who can consistently generate inspiratory flows of more than 30 to 60 L per minute [5]. Face masks are required when delivering aerosols to infants and preschool, however drug delivery varies considerably and factors such as leakage around face-mask, lack of co-operation and crying can influence the lung dose significantly [6-8], and the use of a mouthpiece is recommended as early as possible [9]. In children who are able to use a mouthpiece consistently, training in specific inspiratory manoeuvres, such as maximal inhalation techniques, may be attempted in place of tidal breathing. Maximal inhalations can be used for pMDIs with valved spacers to reduce the time taken for aerosol administration, and may increase the amount of drug delivered to the lungs [10]. Single maximal inhalations should be used for (a) pMDIs without spacers, (b) pMDIs with nonvalved spacers and (c) DPIs, as tidal breathing is not appropriate for these devices. It is important to ensure that patients are able to perform the more complex inhalation techniques required for these devices consistently, and that training in the use of these devices is reinforced.

pui:35085236
Title:New CFC-free inhalation system for the treatment of asthma
Authors:A.A. Lubliner
Absract:Aerosol therapy is currently the primary delivery method for asthma medications to children, apart from leukotriene antagonists which are administered in oral tablet form. The selection of the most appropriate inhalation device can be difficult, particularly when treating infants and very young children. Device selection can be dependent on the drug formulation to be administered and the area of the airways to be targeted for optimal therapeutic effect. In infants and preschool children, the transition from mask to mouthpiece and the ability to learn how to perform specific inhalation manoeuvres, rather than simple tidal breathing, will also play a role in the choice of device. Finally lack of adherence of both parents and children to prescribed therapeutic regimens is an important issue, and the most difficult to address. The two choices of delivery device for asthmatic children under 6 years of age are (a) pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) with valved holding chambers (spacers) or (b) nebulisers [1]. During acute, severe asthma exacerbations, equivalent clinical outcomes have been shown when comparing bronchodilator administration using pMDI-spacers and nebulisers in both adults and children [2-4]. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) may be considered as alternatives to pMDIs and nebulisers for children and adolescents who can consistently generate inspiratory flows of more than 30 to 60 L per minute [5]. Face masks are required when delivering aerosols to infants and preschool, however drug delivery varies considerably and factors such as leakage around face-mask, lack of co-operation and crying can influence the lung dose significantly [6-8], and the use of a mouthpiece is recommended as early as possible [9]. In children who are able to use a mouthpiece consistently, training in specific inspiratory manoeuvres, such as maximal inhalation techniques, may be attempted in place of tidal breathing. Maximal inhalations can be used for pMDIs with valved spacers to reduce the time taken for aerosol administration, and may increase the amount of drug delivered to the lungs [10]. Single maximal inhalations should be used for (a) pMDIs without spacers, (b) pMDIs with nonvalved spacers and (c) DPIs, as tidal breathing is not appropriate for these devices. It is important to ensure that patients are able to perform the more complex inhalation techniques required for these devices consistently, and that training in the use of these devices is reinforced.

pui:5175269
Title:The use of an image analyser to determine the particle size distribution of salbutamol for use in metered dose inhalation aerosols
Authors:G.W. HallworthP. Barnes
Absract:Aerosol therapy is currently the primary delivery method for asthma medications to children, apart from leukotriene antagonists which are administered in oral tablet form. The selection of the most appropriate inhalation device can be difficult, particularly when treating infants and very young children. Device selection can be dependent on the drug formulation to be administered and the area of the airways to be targeted for optimal therapeutic effect. In infants and preschool children, the transition from mask to mouthpiece and the ability to learn how to perform specific inhalation manoeuvres, rather than simple tidal breathing, will also play a role in the choice of device. Finally lack of adherence of both parents and children to prescribed therapeutic regimens is an important issue, and the most difficult to address. The two choices of delivery device for asthmatic children under 6 years of age are (a) pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) with valved holding chambers (spacers) or (b) nebulisers [1]. During acute, severe asthma exacerbations, equivalent clinical outcomes have been shown when comparing bronchodilator administration using pMDI-spacers and nebulisers in both adults and children [2-4]. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) may be considered as alternatives to pMDIs and nebulisers for children and adolescents who can consistently generate inspiratory flows of more than 30 to 60 L per minute [5]. Face masks are required when delivering aerosols to infants and preschool, however drug delivery varies considerably and factors such as leakage around face-mask, lack of co-operation and crying can influence the lung dose significantly [6-8], and the use of a mouthpiece is recommended as early as possible [9]. In children who are able to use a mouthpiece consistently, training in specific inspiratory manoeuvres, such as maximal inhalation techniques, may be attempted in place of tidal breathing. Maximal inhalations can be used for pMDIs with valved spacers to reduce the time taken for aerosol administration, and may increase the amount of drug delivered to the lungs [10]. Single maximal inhalations should be used for (a) pMDIs without spacers, (b) pMDIs with nonvalved spacers and (c) DPIs, as tidal breathing is not appropriate for these devices. It is important to ensure that patients are able to perform the more complex inhalation techniques required for these devices consistently, and that training in the use of these devices is reinforced.

doi:10.2174/1381612003398852
Title:Regional distribution and kinetics of inhaled pharmaceuticals
Authors:M.S. BerridgeZ. LeeD.L. Heald
Absract:Drug biodistribution is often secondary to drug action. However, drugs that have a topical action and are deposited into the airway by inhalation are dependent on effective deposition at the intended site of action. Measurement of the distribution of such drugs in the airway is a useful tool. Distribution data can help to interpret clinical results, to evaluate products relative to each other, to optimize a new drug formulation, and to choose effective drug delivery methods. Imaging of radiotracers is the only means available to measure drug deposition throughout the lungs, nasal passages, and sinuses. There are several approaches to imaging drug deposition. Planar imaging has been the most used method, but SPECT and PET imaging are beginning to be applied effectively. The properties of non-drug tracers, labeling of drugs, evaluation of distribution patterns, and quantification of deposited drugs are important issues that have been addressed. Imaging has been shown to be a powerful technique to evaluate and to speed development of inhaled drugs. This review explores the most recent advances and issues with an emphasis on drug development.

pui:30195532
Title:New liquid drug aerosol devices for inhalation therapy
Authors:J. DenyerD. PaviaB. Zierenberg
Absract:The scope of the planned European Respiratory Society (ERS) nebulizer guidelines must define clearly what devices are included. This paper will discuss four new liquid aerosol devices for inhalation therapy and how they compare with existing nebulizers. The Respimat and Aer(x) devices are combined drug formulation and delivery system. The Respimat is a propellant-free, multidose inhaler, not requiring a battery power source and which can be reused by replacing the drug cartridge. The Aer(x) system has a drug vial with an integral array of holes, it is breath activated and obviates the requirement for patients to remember and comply with instructions for use. The Halolite and AeroNeb are stand-alone delivery devices where the drug is supplied separately from the device. The HaloLite uses adaptive aerosol delivery and a precise preset dose is delivered to each patient. The AeroNeb is a silent and compact nebulizer using novel atomization technology which eliminates the compressor required with a pneumatic nebulizer. In the clinic a nebulizer is considered as a device used to generate an aerosol from an aqueous drug solution or suspension, which is supplied separately. A definition which follows the current understanding of the clinician could increase the rate of adoption of the guidelines and their effective application.

doi:10.1007/s00125-020-05221-5
Title:Technosphere insulin use in type 1 and type 2 diabetes is associated with weight loss compared to insulin analogues or insulin mixtures over 26 Weeks
Authors:A.L. HoogwerfD.M. KendallN.S. ZaveriP.M. MoreyB.J. Hoogwerf
Absract:Background and aims: Technosphere Insulin (TI) is a dry-powder formulation of recombinant human insulin adsorbed onto Technosphere microparticles for oral inhalation. Weight loss has been observed in individual.

pui:622271430
Title:The role of carriers in DPI capsules
Authors:A. Siew
Absract:Choice of carrier can have a significant impact on the capsule filling process as well as the performance of the DPI formulation.

pui:28160655
Title:Specific aspects of spacer use in infants
Authors:J. De Blic
Absract:Choice of carrier can have a significant impact on the capsule filling process as well as the performance of the DPI formulation.

doi:10.1002/jps.2600690628
Title:Video characterization of flume patterns of inhalation aerosols
Authors:S. MiszukB.M. GuptaF.C. Chen
Absract:Choice of carrier can have a significant impact on the capsule filling process as well as the performance of the DPI formulation.

doi:10.1586/17476348.2014.896205
Title:Aerosolized antibiotics in cystic fibrosis: An update
Authors:S.B. Fiel
Absract:Inhaled antibiotic therapy, targeting Pseudomonas aeruginosa, is a fundamental component of cystic fibrosis (CF) management. Tobramycin inhalation solution (TIS) was approved in the United States (US) in 1998. Subsequent research efforts focused on developing products with a reduced treatment time burden. Aztreonam for inhalation solution (AZLI), administered via a more efficient nebulizer than TIS, was approved in the US in 2010. Dry powder for inhalation (DPI) formulations provide alternatives to nebulized therapy: tobramycin powder for inhalation (also known as TIP™) was approved in the US in 2013, and colistimethate sodium DPI received European approval in 2012. Other aerosolized antibiotics and regimens combining inhaled antibiotics are in development. Inhaled antibiotic rotation (e.g., TIS alternating with AZLI) is an important concept being actively tested in CF. © Informa Uk, Ltd.

doi:10.1080/10837450802662820
Title:Formulation and process development of (recombinant human) deoxyribonuclease i as a powder for inhalation
Authors:G.S. ZijlstraB.J. PonsioenS.A. HummelN. SandersW.L.J. HinrichsA.H. De BoerH.W. Frijlink
Absract:A formulation and process development study was performed to formulate recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I as a powder for inhalation. First, excipient compatibility (with bovine DNase as a model substance) was examined with a stability study at stressed conditions (60 and 85°C) while monitoring for occurrence of the Maillard reaction. Next, powders for inhalation were prepared by spray drying and spray freeze drying. We found that spray drying with inulin as stabilizer resulted in the best powder for inhalation. Finally, an ex-vivo test with the spray dried rhDNase I/inulin powder significantly decreased elastic and viscous moduli of sputum from five cystic fibrosis patients.

pui:364154636
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery - simplified
Authors:A. Leone-BayC. SmutneyJ. Kocinsky
Absract:Following up on their article that appeared in ONdrugDelivery last November, Andrea Leone-Bay, PhD, Vice-President, Pharmaceutical Development; Chad Smutney, Senior Director, Device Technology; and Joseph Kocinsky, Senior Vice-President, Pharmaceutical Technology Development, all of MannKind Corporation, detail specific advantages and applications of the company's pulmonary formulation technology and inhaler devices. Also described are proprietary inhalation product development technologies and processes that speed time to market for inhalable drugs - both for local and systemic delivery. © 2011 Frederick Furness Publishing.

pui:43048882
Title:Tomorrow's pharmaceutical dosage forms
Authors:P. ColomboF. Sonvico
Absract:Following up on their article that appeared in ONdrugDelivery last November, Andrea Leone-Bay, PhD, Vice-President, Pharmaceutical Development; Chad Smutney, Senior Director, Device Technology; and Joseph Kocinsky, Senior Vice-President, Pharmaceutical Technology Development, all of MannKind Corporation, detail specific advantages and applications of the company's pulmonary formulation technology and inhaler devices. Also described are proprietary inhalation product development technologies and processes that speed time to market for inhalable drugs - both for local and systemic delivery. © 2011 Frederick Furness Publishing.

pui:19094148
Title:In vitro inhalation of disodium cromoglycate powders using two dosage forms
Authors:M. VidgrenP. VidgrenJ. UotilaP. Paronen
Absract:Following up on their article that appeared in ONdrugDelivery last November, Andrea Leone-Bay, PhD, Vice-President, Pharmaceutical Development; Chad Smutney, Senior Director, Device Technology; and Joseph Kocinsky, Senior Vice-President, Pharmaceutical Technology Development, all of MannKind Corporation, detail specific advantages and applications of the company's pulmonary formulation technology and inhaler devices. Also described are proprietary inhalation product development technologies and processes that speed time to market for inhalable drugs - both for local and systemic delivery. © 2011 Frederick Furness Publishing.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.03.009
Title:Physico-chemical characterisation of surface modified particles for inhalation
Authors:K. StankH. Steckel
Absract:Surface modification of drugs for inhalation is a possibility to influence interparticulate forces. This can be necessary to achieve a sufficient aerosolisation during powder inhalation as the cohesiveness of the micronised drug can be reduced. In addition, the interaction with propellants in pressurised metered dose inhaler can be changed. This can be used to improve the physical stability of the suspension based formulations. A dry particle coating process was used for the alteration of particle surfaces. The blending of micronised salbutamol sulphate (SBS) with different concentrations of magnesium stearate (Mgst) or glycerol monostearate (GMS) was followed by co-milling with an air jet mill. The powder properties were characterised by SEM, EDX, laser diffraction, BET and inverse gas chromatography. Physical mixtures generated by Turbula blending were compared to co-milled samples. A slight particle size reduction was determined. The Mgst deposition on SBS particles was detected by EDX measurements. The dispersive surface energy of SBS is lowered and the energy distribution is more homogenous for the co-milled samples. This study proves the application of co-milling for surface modification in the inhalation area.© 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1007/s40267-021-00867-6
Title:Novel formulations and technologies can improve the delivery of levodopa
Authors:E.S. KimA. Lee
Absract:There is a need for levodopa formulations that can provide continuous levodopa delivery for continuous dopamine production in the brain. This would allow for maximal efficacy while avoiding the motor complications associated with the short and pulsatile action of standard oral levodopa. Novel approaches that have been explored include inhalation, intestinal and subcutaneous delivery of levodopa.

doi:10..2174/1381612823666161116114732
Title:Liposomes for pulmonary drug delivery: The role of formulation and inhalation device design
Authors:A. Elhissi
Absract:Liposomes are established drug carriers for inhalation owing to their safety and ability to provide controlled drug release in the lung. These carriers can entrap a wide range of therapeutic molecules for delivery in large volumes to the peripheral airways using medical nebulizers. Pressurized metered inhalers (pMDIs), soft mist inhalers (SMIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs) can deliver relatively small quantities of medication to the lung when compared to medical nebulizers which can deliver large volumes using simple liposome preparation techniques. Unfortunately, the shearing provided during nebulization to convert the aqueous liposome dispersions into “respirable” aerosol droplets may exert physical stress on liposome bilayers, causing losses of the originally entrapped drug. The development of successful liposome carriers for inhalation depends on two main factors which are formulation composition and nebulizer design, with the aim of reducing the detrimental effect of shearing on liposome stability and maximizing the deposition of vesicles in the ‘deep lung’. A number of nebulizable liposome formulations have reached clinical trials. For example, Arikace® (liposomal amikacin) and Pulmaquin® (liposomal ciprofloxacin) are antibacterial formulations currently in advanced stages of development. In this review, the role of liposome formulation and inhalation device design on the suitability of liposomes for eliciting controlled drug release in the lung was evaluated. Moreover, the factors contributing to the success of Arikace® in clinical trials were appraised.

pui:14222160
Title:The use of fenoterol powder for the treatment of children with asthma
Authors:J. HoltR. Bolle
Absract:Beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic drugs are widely used in the treatment of chidren with bronchial asthma. spray or nebulisator treatment has most often been employed for the inhalation treatment (1). Beta-@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists are now available in powder form; the powder capsules are perforated in the inhaler and the drug inhaled due to turbulance occurs as a result of inspiration. Children below the ages of 6-7 years rarely master the spray technique, whereas children as young as 3-4 years can use the powder inhaler (2). The present report describes our experience with powder inhalation in children with bronchial asthma. The effect of fenoterol (Berotec®) powder for inhalation is compared to salbutamol (Ventolin®) nebulisator solution.

doi:10.1248/yakushi1947.115.9_732
Title:Aerosolization of lactide/glycolide copolymer (PLGA) nanospheres for pulmonary delivery of peptide-drugs
Authors:T. NiwaH. TakeuchiT. HinoY. Kawashima
Absract:Lactide/glycolide copolymer (PLGA) nanospheres with nafarelin acetate (NA) used as a model peptide-drug have been developed by the emulsion-phase separation method in an oil phase as reported previously. In the present study, the aerosolization of nanospheres in dry and wet dispersion methods was investigated in vitro to evaluate their applications to pulmonary delivery of peptide drug. The size distribution of aerosolized nanosphere dispersions and pulmonary deposition behaviors of inhaled particles were investigated using a lazer diffraction light-scattering particle sizer and an artificial model lung (Cascade Impactor: CI), respectively. It was found that the freeze-drying of nanospheres with a hydrophilic surface active agent effectively improved the inhalation behavior. Further, the mixing of nanospheres with lactose led to the reduction of their adhesion to an inhalation device (Spinhaler). It was supposed that the mists of nanosphere suspension generated from a jet nebulizer might be inhaled into the lower bronchus and alveolus, because their respirable fraction (RF) value, i.e., the deposition percentage on stage 2 to 6 of CI, defined as a pulmonary inhalation index, reached a maximum of over 50%.

pui:351346663
Title:Inhalation of tobramycin in patients with cystic fibrosis: Comparison of two methods
Authors:R. DopferP. BrandB. MüllingerT. HungerS. HäussermannT. MeyerG. ScheuchR. Siekmeier
Absract:Inhalant tobramycin is established in the treatment of cystic fibrosis patients. Conventional nebulizers require a large amount of the expensive compound, because only a small fraction is deposited in the targeted lung region. In contrast, techniques based on controlled inhalation allow a high and reproducible deposition of the drug in specific lung regions. In our study we compared the efficiency of two techniques based on conventional and controlled inhalation in 16 cystic fibrosis patients aged 13-39 years. Inhalations with the doses of tobramycin of 300 mg and 150 mg were performed twice daily for three days. The efficiency of the drug deposition was measured by the determination of its serum concentration 1 h after the end of the inhalation. The mean FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end value in our patients was 61% of predicted, range 36%-116%. There were no differences in tobramycin serum concentrations among the three study days in both methods (controlled inhalation: 0.983 ±0.381(±SD) mg/l, 1.119 ±0.448 mg/l, 1.194 ±0.568 mg/l; conventional inhalation: 1.075 ±0.798 mg/l, 1.294 ±0.839 mg/l and 1.269 ±0.767 mg/l, on Day 1, Day 2, and Day 3, respectively). Even though the drug amount was double in the conventional technique, there was no significant difference in its overall serum concentration from the three study days (conventional inhalation: 1.210 ±0.783 mg/l, controlled inhalation: 1.092 ±0.461 mg/l). In addition, the coefficient of variation and the required inhalation time were shorter in controlled inhalation than in conventional inhalation (42% vs. 65% and 7-8 min vs. 20 min, respectively). Our data suggest that controlled inhalation can significantly reduce the amount of a drug required for therapy, the inhalation time required for drug deposition, and the variability of pulmonary dosage. It seems probable that controlled inhalation can improve the antibiotic prevention of pulmonary infection.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.07.011
Title:Pharmacokinetics of inhaled nanotherapeutics for pulmonary delivery
Authors:A.M. ShenT. Minko
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of lipid-based nanotherapeutics by inhalation presents an advantageous alternative to oral and intravenous routes of administration that avoids enzymatic degradation in gastrointestinal tract and hepatic first pass metabolism and also limits off-target adverse side effects upon heathy tissues. For lung-related indications, inhalation provides localized delivery in order to enhance therapeutic efficacy at the site of action. Optimization of physicochemical properties, selected drug and inhalation format can greatly influence the pharmacokinetic behavior of inhaled nanoparticle systems and their payloads. The present review analyzes a wide range of nanoparticle systems, their formulations and consequent effect on pharmacokinetic distribution of delivered active components after inhalation.

doi:10.1021/js9504292
Title:Solid state catheterization of spray-dried powders of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease (RhDNase)
Authors:H.-K. ChanI. Gonda
Absract:rhDNase is a recombinant human protein approved as an aqueous solution for human use by inhalation. To study the feasibility of preparation of dry powders for inhalation, spray-dried powders of pure rhDNase and co-spray- dried mixtures of rhDNase with an excipient approved for inhalation products, lactose, were prepared. Both types of powders were initially amorphous. The lactose, however, was found to crystallize after exposure to a humid environment. The crystals in the powder were identified as the α-monohydrate polymorph of lactose by hot-stage optical and scanning electron microscopy, differential scanning calorimetry and thermogravimetry, FTIR spectroscopy, and X-ray powder diffraction. Moisture sorption isotherms indicated that crystallization occurred at high relative humidities (70-85%), depending on the temperature of the environment (5-40 °C). The practical implications for the manufacturing and storage of protein powders for inhalation are discussed.

doi:10.1016/S0032-5910(02)00346-7
Title:Binderless granulation of pharmaceutical fine powders with coarse lactose for dry powder inhalation
Authors:K. TakanoK. NishiiM. Horio
Absract:With the Pressure Swing Granulation (PSG), a fluidized bed binderless granulation method, jet-milled fine model drug powders of roughly 2 μm in diameter were mixed with lactose and successfully agglomerated into spherical soft granules to demonstrate that PSG is an effective granulation method for dry powder inhalation. The effects of both lactose particle size, which is supposed to be of either carriers or excipients for inhalants, and granule formulations on the product properties and their dispersion characteristics were investigated. To strengthen the granule-forming tendency without decreasing the carrier particle size, lactose particles' surface morphology was modified before granulation in a ball-milling pot with balls having their lowest milling size larger than the lactose particle size. By this modification, lactose particles of about 8.8 μm in mean diameter were successfully agglomerated without binders over the full range of mixing ratio with the model drug particles. An excellent dispersion property for inhalation was obtained with the PSG granules produced from the surface modified lactose and the PSG method is expected to add a new freedom in producing dry powder for inhalation. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:2013100536
Title:Dry powder inhalers: A review
Authors:T.M. RaoM. BhanuU. BhavaniM. YaminiC.V.S. Phanindra
Absract:Now a day the pulmonary route serves as an excellent route for administration of various drugs by inhalation. Inhalation by pulmonary route is most successful, since it reduces the quantity of dose required from other routes of administration and it also avoids hepatic first pass metabolism only smaller fraction of drug gets metabolized by liver. Pulmonary route is utilized to treat different respiratory illness for since a long time. Inhaler is used to treat respiratory diseases like chronic inflammatory disorder such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other lung diseases. The inhalation delivery can be done via nebulizers, metered dose inhalers and dry powders inhalers.

pui:24339810
Title:The effect of Taleum (sodium cromoglycate) 1-mg inhalation aerosol in children with allergic asthma
Authors:B. Nagy
Absract:Usefulness and prophylactic effect of Taleum (sodium cromoglycate) inhalation aerosol (EGIS Pharmaceutical Works) were examined in 34 children aged 8 to 14 years, who suffered from extrinsic bronchial asthma. The changes in clinical symptoms and respiratory function parameters were compared to the result of therapy with Intal powder inhaled with the aid of a spinhaler. The children learned the inhalation of Taleum spray easily. The use of this prophylactic agent was more simple as compared to the powder capsule. Considering all examined parameters, the effectivity of Taleum proved to be similar to that of Intal capsule used as a reference drug.

pui:13035710
Title:Duration of action of sodium cromoglycate on exercise induced asthma: Comparison of 2 formulations
Authors:E. Bar YishayI. GurM. Levy
Absract:Thirteen asthmatic children aged 9-14 years participated in a double blind randomised trial to compare the effectiveness and duration of action of 2 formulations of sodium cromoglycate; one a 20 mg capsule of powdered sodium cromoglycate delivered by turbo inhaler (spinhaler), and the other 1 mg of aerosolised sodium cromoglycate delivered by pressurised cannister inhaler (aerosol). The children performed exercise tests on each of 3 days in a 10 day period - 15 minutes, 2 hours, and 6 hours after inhalation of power, aerosol, or a placebo. Two patients were not protected from exercise induced asthma by either formulation of sodium cromoglycate. Among the remaining patients both formulations gave good protection from exercise induced asthma 15 minutes after inhalation, and the effect of both wore off steadily over the next 6 hours. The sphinhaler gave appreciably better protection than the aerosol at 15 minutes after inhalation, and was the only formulation to provide good protection at 2 hours and 6 hours. The more limited effectiveness of the aerosol may be explained by the lower dose of sodium cromoglycate and the more complicated inhalation technique required.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2007.03.021
Title:Dry powder inhalation of hemin to induce heme oxygenase expression in the lung
Authors:G.S. ZijlstraC.A. BrandsmaM.F.H. HarpeG.M. Van DamD.J. SlebosH.A.M. KerstjensA.H. De BoerH.W. Frijlink
Absract:The purpose of this study was to formulate hemin as a powder for inhalation and to show proof of concept of heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) expression in the lungs of mice by inhalation of hemin. Hemin was spray dried from a neutralized sodium hydroxide solution. The particle size distribution of the powder was between 1 and 5 μm. Dispersion from the Twincer dry powder inhaler showed a fine particle fraction (<5 μm) of 36%. A specially designed aerosol box based on the Twincer@sup_begin®@sup_end-inhaler was used for a proof of concept study of HO-1 induction by inhalation of hemin in mice. The aerosol in the exposure chamber of the aerosol box remained aerosolized up to 5 min. A rhodamin B containing aerosol was used to show that the aerosol box gave deposition over the entire lung indicating the suitability of the model. Additionally, inhalation of hemin showed a dose dependent increase in HO-1 protein expression in the lungs. In conclusion, hemin was successfully formulated as a powder for inhalation and the inhalation model allowed controlled HO-1 expression in the lungs of mice. Future studies investigating the utility of inhaled hemin in treating disease states are warranted. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2003.1351
Title:Is inhalation rate important for a dry powder inhaler? Using the In-Check Dial to identify these rates
Authors:H. Chrystyn
Absract:The fraction of the emitted dose from an inhaler that has the potential to be deposited into the lungs is known as the fine particle dose (also the respirable dose). During inhalation all dry powder inhalers require a 'force' to be created inside the device so that a fine particle dose is generated from the formulation in the metering chamber. This 'force' is formed by the inhalation rate used together with the resistance (and hence design) inside an inhaler. Studies have shown that the fine particle dose is related to the clinical effect whilst other studies have reported that this dose can be dependent on the inhalation rate used. The inhalation technique recommended by the manufacturer of an inhaled device should, therefore, be used. For those dry powder inhalers that demonstrate significant flow dependent dosage emission it is important that patients use the most desirable rate that has been reported. The In-Check Dial is a simple and ease to use meter that can be used to measure the inhalation rate of a patient when they use each of the commonly prescribed inhalers that are currently available. This meter can be used to identify the most suitable inhaler for each individual. © 2002 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.

doi:10.1002/jps.2600760117
Title:Spinning-disk generation and drying of monodisperse solid aerosols with output concentrations sufficient for single-breath inhalation studies
Authors:P.R. ByronA.J. Hickey
Absract:The fraction of the emitted dose from an inhaler that has the potential to be deposited into the lungs is known as the fine particle dose (also the respirable dose). During inhalation all dry powder inhalers require a 'force' to be created inside the device so that a fine particle dose is generated from the formulation in the metering chamber. This 'force' is formed by the inhalation rate used together with the resistance (and hence design) inside an inhaler. Studies have shown that the fine particle dose is related to the clinical effect whilst other studies have reported that this dose can be dependent on the inhalation rate used. The inhalation technique recommended by the manufacturer of an inhaled device should, therefore, be used. For those dry powder inhalers that demonstrate significant flow dependent dosage emission it is important that patients use the most desirable rate that has been reported. The In-Check Dial is a simple and ease to use meter that can be used to measure the inhalation rate of a patient when they use each of the commonly prescribed inhalers that are currently available. This meter can be used to identify the most suitable inhaler for each individual. © 2002 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2012.10.021
Title:Developing and advancing dry powder inhalation towards enhanced therapeutics
Authors:S. StegemannS. KoppG. BorchardV.P. ShahS. SenelR. DubeyN. UrbanetzM. CitteroA. SchoubbenC. HippchenD. CadeA. FuglsangJ. MoraisL. BorgströmF. FarshiK.-H. SeyfangR. HermannA. Van De PutteI. KlebovichA. Hincal
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:623240412
Title:Testing foreign particulate matter in inhaled products
Authors:J. Markarian
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:20116474
Title:Spectrophotometric quantification of fenoterol hydrobromide in tablets and inhalation
Authors:M.A. AbounassifE.A. Abdel-Moety
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:14044739
Title:Cyclodextrin-stabilized volatile substances for inhalation therapy
Authors:M. Gal-FuzyL. SzenteJ. SzejtliJ. Harangi
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:372534305
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery - Particle engineering for inhaled therapeutics
Authors:A. Siew
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:368729863
Title:Critical design strategies for extractables and leachables control: Methods for avoiding contamination
Authors:T. Feinberg
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0007-0971(80)80031-3
Title:A comparison of aerosol and powder inhalation of beclomethasone
Authors:I.A. CampbellO.C. FinneganJ. ToddD. Smith
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:38028860
Title:Pharmaceutical inhalation aerosol powder dispersion - An unbalancing act
Authors:A.J. Hickey
Absract:Enhanced therapeutics are drug products derived from existing generic drugs that provide additional benefits to the patients and the healthcare system. Enhanced therapeutics are considered to be an important and relatively low risk source of innovation. Pulmonary drug delivery is the major delivery route to treat chronic respiratory diseases and has been proven as a potential delivery route for complex drugs that cannot be delivered orally. Development of dry powder inhalation systems targets the delivery of fine drug particles to the deep lung surface by a combination of drug formulation, primary packaging and a device, whereby each contributes to the overall performance. Various methodologies for the non-clinical and clinical performance testing of orally inhaled products have been proposed and applied with variable success. Regulatory pathways have been developed and applied since. Considerable efforts have been made during the past decade to understand and optimize pulmonary drug delivery including their efficient commercial manufacturing. Pulmonary drug delivery remains an area of future innovation in the effective treatment of pulmonary diseases as well as the systemic delivery of systemically active complex drugs. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0168-3659(02)00460-1
Title:A new agglomerated KSR-592 β-form crystal system for dry powder inhalation formulation to improve inhalation performance in vitro and in vivo
Authors:K. IkegamiY. KawashimaH. TakeuchiH. YamamotoK. MimuraD.-I. MomoseK. Ouchi
Absract:A new agglomerated KSR-592 (steroid) β-form needle-like crystals with lactose system for dry powder inhalation (DPI) was developed to improve inhalation performance with Jethaler®. The drug agglomerates were prepared by the method of spherical agglomeration in liquid so as to control the particle size and the mechanical strength of agglomerates by changing the agitation speed of the agglomeration system. The agglomerates mixed with lactose particles for the DPI formulation were effectively disintegrated into respirable fine particle in the milling chamber of the device (Jethaler®) when inhaled. The DPI formulation with these agglomerates exhibited ideal fluidity and provided a larger fine particle fraction (FPF: 29.7%) than the formulation with agglomerates consisting of α-form (plate-like) crystals (24.5%). The air-flow rate of inhalation had no effect on the disintegration properties of these agglomerates, suggesting a reliable inhalation performance in vivo. Further, an in vivo test of the aerosolized KSR-592 (β-form) crystals having the same particle size distribution as those in the aerosol produced by Jethaler® was conducted by means of a dry powder inhalation testing system using Brown Norway rats. Inhaled KSR-592 (β-form) crystals were found to be uniformly deposited in the lungs of Brown Norway rat sensitized by ovalbumin (OA) and suppressed the increase in eosinophil number in the lungs after OA challenge. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:12101800
Title:A comparison between aerosol and inhaled powder administration of fenoterol in adult asthmatics
Authors:R. HarrisR.P.G. Rothwell
Absract:Eleven adult asthmatics were given fenoterol either as a metered aerosol dose or as an inhaled powder with appropriate controls, in a randomised double-blind fashion. The increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was the same after both dosage forms and no side effects occurred indicating that powder inhalation is a safe and effective alternative to aerosol inhalation in the treatment of asthma with sympathomimetics.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2018.01.019
Title:Technical challenges in obtaining an optimized powder/DPI combination for inhalation delivery of a bi-component generic drug
Authors:A. HejdukA. UrbańskaA. OsińskiP. ŁukaszewiczM. DomańskiT.R. Sosnowski
Absract:Development of bi-component generic orally inhaled product (OIP) delivered from dry powder inhaler (DPI) is challenging due to the necessity to demonstrate the similarity of size distribution of both APIs in inhaled aerosol. The effects of selected technical factors on OIP development are investigated. The Monodose inhalers with different aerodynamic resistance were used to aerosolize generic fluticasone/salmeterol formulations. Flow dynamics in the DPIs was analyzed during realistic use. The effects of lactose grade, capsule types and blending equipment on aerosol particle size were studied with compendial methods. The best dispersion of bi-component powder was obtained in a medium-resistant (∼0.108 hPa@sup_begin0.5@sup_end min L@sup_begin−1@sup_end) Monodose DPI as compared to low- and high-resistant devices. All studied technological factors had influence on the fine particle dose of each API and fluticasone/salmeterol mass ratio. It was demonstrated that the selected Monodose inhaler in combination with the newly developed bi-component drug formulation was able to reproduce the quality of inhalable aerosol obtained from Diskus DPI. Since powder dispersion depends on the energy available in a single breath, an optimized DPI is needed in generic OIP. By adjusting several technological factors it is possible to obtain the reproducible product with the required dose of each aerosolized APIs.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.08.008
Title:Practical, regulatory and clinical considerations for development of inhalation drug products
Authors:S. HouJ. WuX. LiH. Shu
Absract:The formulation and device collectively constitute an inhalation drug product. Development of inhaled drugs must consider the compatibility between formulation and device in order to achieve the intended pharmaceutical performance and usability of the product to improve patient compliance with treatment instruction. From the points of formulation, device and patient use, this article summarizes the inhalation drugs, including pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI), dry powder inhaler (DPI), and nebulizer that are currently available in the US and UK markets. It also discusses the practical considerations for the development of inhalers and provides an update on the corresponding regulations of the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) and the EMA (European Medicines Agency).

pui:2014564683
Title:Research progress in pulmonary inhalation drug delivery system
Authors:N. WanB. ChenH. LiW.-L. YeH. Wang
Absract:Pulmonary inhalation drug delivery has been becoming one of most popular therapy approaches due to its advantages of quick onset of action, improved efficacy and reduced adverse drug reaction. Pulmonary drug delivery system plays an extremely important role worldwide in the fields of developing new drug delivery systems, particularly in the treatment of respiratory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma, which shows a promising prospect of clinical application. This review critically summarizes the latest classification of inhalable formulations, the US FDA-approved products on the market and the research progress of innovative products, aiming to provide broad ideas and new inspirations for the development of pulmonary inhalation formulations in the future.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4939-3121-7_15
Title:Respiratory System
Authors:K. Kawakami
Absract:The potential therapeutic benefits of drug molecules can be maximized by well-designed delivery technology. Improvements in nanotechnology have facilitated innovations in pulmonary drug delivery, because inhalation is a drug administration route for which the size of particles in the formulation has an extensive effect on the fate of the drug molecules after administration. Deposition site of the drug in the lung is determined by the aerodynamic size of the inhaled particles, and the absorption and clearance processes after deposition also are influenced by particle size. Inhalation of a nanoparticulate drug is the simplest idea to apply nanotechnology in this field, but it is not technically easy because nanoparticulate drugs are prone to aggregate. Thus, various efforts have been made to prevent aggregation for exerting advantages of nanopar-ticles. This chapter describes various efforts for utilizing nanotechnology for pulmonary drug delivery.

pui:35439339
Title:Formulation of lactose for inhaled delivery systems
Authors:H. Te WierikP. DiepenmaatR. Damhuis
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) contain a powder which, when required, is discharged and inhaled. The therapeutic drug is manufactured in powder form as small particles a few micrometres in diameter. In many DPIs, the drug is mixed with much larger sugar crystals, such as lactose, and the smaller drug particles attach to these excipient particles, improving entrainment of the drug upon inhalation. This article examines how the application and combination of versatile processes such as milling, micronizing, sieving and air classification can be used to manufacture dedicated lactose products for practically every possible combination of active and excipient blend in DPIs.

pui:631895495
Title:Aerosol Society Drug Delivery to the Lungs 30 International Conference
Authors:H. Te WierikP. DiepenmaatR. Damhuis
Absract:The proceedings contain 94 papers. The topics discussed include: optimization of an isoniazid dry powder formulation for pulmonary administration; the environmental impact of MDI propellants - what now?; modifications to an inhaler device to aid the interpretation of clinical trial data; comparison of commercially available HPMC inhalation-grade capsules and effect on aerosol performance within model DPI formulations; assessment of nai Äve inhaler user inhalation profiles and the impact on subsequent aerosol performance : comparison of a dry powder inhaler (DPI) and a pressurized metered dose inhaler (PMDI) with valved holding chamber (VHC) using the same active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIS); investigating the effect of nasal suspension rheology on API particle size and dissolution properties; extending the capability of high dose DPI formulation using a new blending technology; clogging challenge test on mesh vibrating nebulizer using budesonide suspension; and how does the device determine nose-to-brain drug delivery to mice?.

pui:351152385
Title:Aerosol therapy
Authors:A. Battistini
Absract:The percentage of a prescribed drug that is able to reach the lung (delivery power) is low and varies widely when both nebulizers, pneumatic and ultrasonic, are used. The Metered-Doser Inhaler (MDI) has a higher and more constant efficiency, moreover when associated to a spacer provided with valves, it zeroes the ballistic effect (the impact of the drug with the oropharynx) and makes the procedure suitable for all ages. Conversely, Dry Powder Inhaler enhances the ballistic effect and requires a much higher patient collaboration. Independently from the technique used, the percentage of drug that actually reaches the lung in the child is much lower than that in adult (2-6% versus 16-20%): hence the necessity to reconsider the dosages via inhalation for paediatric use. In order to get the best collaboration on behalf of the parents it is mandatory that they are instructed on the basics of inhalation therapy and shown the correct procedure.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2004.02.010
Title:Cyclodextrins as a potential carrier in drug nebulization
Authors:B. EvrardP. BertholetM. GuedersM.-P. FlamentG. PielL. DelattreA. GayotP. LetermeJ.-M. FoidartD. Cataldo
Absract:The inhalation route is widely studied for many drug applications focusing on either local or systemic distributions. One matter of concern is the solubilization of hydrophobic drugs. We have studied the feasibility of using different cyclodextrins (CDs) to elaborate pharmaceutical formulations for the inhalation route and tested the short-term toxicity of such formulations administered by inhalation to C57BL/6 mice. We have shown that HP-β-CD, γ-CD, as well as RAMEB aqueous solutions can undergo aerosolization and that the resulting droplet-size ranges are compatible with pulmonary deposition. In vivo, we have demonstrated that short-term exposure to inhaled HP-β-CD, γ-CD and RAMEB solutions are non-toxic after assessing bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), lung and kidney histology, bronchial responsiveness to methacholine and blood urea. The only change noted is a slight increase in lymphocyte count in the BAL after HP-β-CD and γ-CD inhalation. We conclude that CDs are useful in significantly enhancing the solubility of apolar drugs with a view to inhalation therapy although an increase in lymphocyte counts in the BAL after CDs inhalations needs further investigations. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1248/yakushi1947.120.1_113
Title:Effect of mixing of fine carrier particles on dry powder inhalation property of salbutamol sulfate (SS)
Authors:K. IidaH. LeuenbergerL.-M. FuegR. Müller-WalzH. OkamotoK. Danjo
Absract:The most commonly used formulations for dry powder inhalations are binary ordered mixes composed of micronized drugs and coarse carriers. An optimal dry powder aerosol formulation should possess an optimal inhalation property and a good flow property. These characteristics are especially important for a multidose dry powder inheler (DPI). In the present study, model powder blend were prepared consisting of synthesized sugar (different particle sized isomalt; IM-PF, IM-FS, IM-F) as a carrier and micronized salbutamol sulfate (SS). These ordered mixtures were aerosolized by the multidose JAGO DPI (SkyePharma AG) and in vitro deposition properties (fine particle fraction, FPF) were evaluated by a twin impinger (TI) at a flow rate of 601/min. The separation property between SS and carrier particles was investigated by the centrifuge method and air jet sieve (AJS) method. It was found that FPF decreased with increasing carrier particle size. However, a large carrier particle possesses a good flow property. Therefore, the effect of mixing of fine carrier particles (IM-PF) into the large carrier particles (IM-FS) on dry powder inhalation property was investigated. When the proportion of IM-PF (fine carrier) increase from 0% to 25% of the total carrier powder blend, the FPF also increases from 16.7% to 38.9%. It is concluded that the effect of mixing of fine carrier particles might be a suitable method for improving the dry powder inhalation properties.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12010024
Title:Dispersibility and storage stability optimization of high dose isoniazid dry powder inhalation formulations with L-leucine or trileucine
Authors:I. SibumP. HagedoornM.P.G. KluitmanM. KloezenH.W. FrijlinkF. Grasmeijer
Absract:Tuberculosis is the leading cause of death from a single infectious pathogen worldwide. Lately, the targeted delivery of antibiotics to the lungs via inhalation has received increasing interest. In a previous article, we reported on the development of a spray-dried dry powder isoniazid formulation containing an L-leucine coating. It dispersed well but had poor physical stability. In this study, we aimed to improve the stability by improving the leucine coating. To this end, we optimized the spray-drying conditions, the excipient content, and the excipient itself. Using L-leucine, the tested excipient contents (up to 5%) did not result in a stable powder. Contrary to L-leucine, the stability attained with trileucine was satisfactory. Even when exposed to 75% relative humidity, the formulation was stable for at least three months. The optimal formulation contained 3% trileucine w/w. This formulation resulted in a maximum fine particle dose of 58.00 ± 2.56 mg when a nominal dose of 80 mg was dispersed from the Cyclops® dry powder inhaler. The improved moisture protection and dispersibility obtained with trileucine are explained by its amorphous nature and a higher surface enrichment during drying. Dispersion efficiency of the device decreases at higher nominal doses.

doi:10.1053/rmed.1999.0692
Title:The relative bioavailability of salbutamol to the lung using urinary excretion following inhalation from a novel dry powder inhaler: The effect of inhalation rate and formulation
Authors:J.K. ChegeH. Chrystyn
Absract:Each dry powder inhaler has a different resistance so that a respirable dose can be generated from the formulation by the patient's inspiratory effort. It is important to recognize that this effect is achievable. The inspiratory flow characteristics of asthmatics inhaling through a Clickhaler® were determined. In a separate study 10 volunteers inhaled separate 2 x 100 μg salbutamol doses from a Clickhaler (ML Laboratories plc U.K.). Two different formulations tone with a high and one with a low respirable fraction) were each inhaled using an inspiratory flow of 30 and 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. A urine sample was collected 30 min post inhalation and then pooled for the next 24 h. The mean (SD) inhalation rate of 24 asthmatics when they inhaled from a Clickhaler was 37.3 (14.6) l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The mean (SD) urinary salbutamol excretion during the first 30 min, by the volunteers, using the high respirable dose formulation at 30 and 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end was 5.59 (1.87) and 4.62 (1.49) μg respectively (P < 0.01). Similar values using the low respirable dose formulation were 4.84 (1.58) and 3.86 (2.14) μg. There was no significant difference between the amounts excreted in the 24 h post-dose. The different 30-min urinary excretions following inhalation of the two formulations suggest a link between the relative bioavailability of salbutamol to the lung and the respirable dose, and that a slow inhalation rate should be used when using a Clickhaler. The patient study shows that this rate is achieved by most asthmatics without further training. (C) 2000 HARCOURT PUBLISHERS LTD.

doi:10.33892/aph.2019.89.63-83
Title:Formulation and characterization of pulmonary drug delivery systems
Authors:S. MagramaneZ. PapaýB. TurbuczI. Antal
Absract:The inhalation therapy is one of the oldest drug delivery methods known. The significance of inhalation can be understood notably through its remarkable history. The goals of this review are to explore the pulmonary drug delivery, its significant relevance and various advantageous properties, particularly due to the physiology of the lungs. The drug delivery into the lungs can be provided by several inhalation instruments presently accessible on the market such as nebulizers, MDIs, and DPIs. Supplementary devices suchlike spacers for instance are also available in order to optimize the therapy results. The efficiency of these devices depends on several parameters of the formulation used, as well as its deposition in the lungs. Therefore, this review focuses on the meticulous testing performed on both the formulation and the device carrying it in the interest of insuring safety, quality, and efficacy of the final product. Ultimately, the pulmonary drug delivery represents a substantially advantageous alternative route of administration to obtain a systemic effect as well. This review aims to the better understanding of the development of pulmonary dosage forms and its complex process which requires extensive considerations and thorough optimization.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.11.005
Title:How can we bring high drug doses to the lung?
Authors:S. ClausC. WeilerJ. SchieweW. Friess
Absract:In the last decades, dry powder inhalation has become a very attractive option for pulmonary drug delivery to treat lung diseases like cystic fibroses and lung infections. In contrast to the traditional pulmonary application of drugs for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, these therapies require higher lung doses to be administered. The developments and improvements toward high dose powder pulmonary drug delivery are summarized and discussed in this chapter. These include the invention and improvement of novel inhaler devices as well as the further development of formulation principles and new powder engineering methods. The implementation of these strategies is subsequently described for some prototypes and formulations in research and development stage as well as for already marketed dry powder products. Finally, possible adverse effects that can occur after inhalation of high powder doses are shortly addressed.© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2008.01.046
Title:Inhalable liposomal formulation for vasoactive intestinal peptide
Authors:F. HajosB. StarkS. HenslerR. PrasslW. Mosgoeller
Absract:Inhalation of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) was suggested as promising treatment option of various lung diseases like asthma and pulmonary hypertension. However, the medical use of peptides is limited by their short half-life due to rapid enzymatic degradation in the airways. For that reason, we recently developed unilamellar nano-sized VIP-loaded liposomes (VLL). Now we investigated their applicability for inhalation purposes. After nebulisation by a mouthpiece ventilation inhaler we found the particle size almost unaffected, being in a size range appropriate for bronchiolar deposition; we observed no peptide release due to nebulisation. The VIP release kinetics from VLL were tested by an ex vivo vasorelaxation model. Exposure to target organs revealed an immediate response, which was significantly retarded for VLL as compared to free VIP (p = 0.001). Using vasorelaxation as endpoint, we observed a sustained release and an extended pharmacological effect compared to equimolar free VIP. The liposomes have the potential to improve VIP inhalation therapy by providing a "dispersible peptide depot" in the bronchi. Thereby, the release of VIP from liposomes may be triggered by exposure to cells, i.e. directly by ligand-receptor interactions. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(01)00819-5
Title:Resistivities of placebo and active Diskus® inhalers compared
Authors:M.E.A.C. BroedersJ. MolemaH.Th.M. Folgering
Absract:Objective: Verbal instruction and demonstration of inhalation technique are essential to enhance the effectiveness of inhalation therapy. Placebo devices are commonly used to instruct patients. It is not obvious that patients, who inhale with an adequate flow through an empty placebo Diskus®, would also be able to do so with active inhalers containing a strip with powder. The presence of powder may result in a change in resistivity. We compared the resistivities of a placebo Diskus® being empty; a powder filled Diskus® inhaler and a Diskus® inhaler with an empty blister. Methods: A Diskus® inhaler was placed in a box, which enabled measurement of pressure drop and flow rates. Ten placebo and ten Ventolin® Diskus® inhalers were measured. Twelve pressure- and flow-profiles were recorded through each device. After each simulated inhalation through a powder filled blister, a second inhalation was performed through the empty blister. The resistivity was calculated by pressure-flow equation. Results: The resistivity of the empty placebo Diskus® inhaler was slightly but significantly higher than both blister filled inhalers, with or without powder (0.0215 vs. 0.0211 and 0.0211 (kPa)@sup_begin0.5@sup_end (1 min@sup_begin-1@sup_end)@sup_begin-1@sup_end) (P < 0.001). Conclusion: Patients who are capable of generating sufficient flow through a placebo Diskus® will surely be capable of generating equivalent flows through a Diskus® inhaler containing a strip with active drug substance. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:16016949
Title:Thermal stability of tobramycin in a tobramycin/phenylephrine inhalation solution
Authors:S.E. WalkerM.J. Madden
Absract:Objective: Verbal instruction and demonstration of inhalation technique are essential to enhance the effectiveness of inhalation therapy. Placebo devices are commonly used to instruct patients. It is not obvious that patients, who inhale with an adequate flow through an empty placebo Diskus®, would also be able to do so with active inhalers containing a strip with powder. The presence of powder may result in a change in resistivity. We compared the resistivities of a placebo Diskus® being empty; a powder filled Diskus® inhaler and a Diskus® inhaler with an empty blister. Methods: A Diskus® inhaler was placed in a box, which enabled measurement of pressure drop and flow rates. Ten placebo and ten Ventolin® Diskus® inhalers were measured. Twelve pressure- and flow-profiles were recorded through each device. After each simulated inhalation through a powder filled blister, a second inhalation was performed through the empty blister. The resistivity was calculated by pressure-flow equation. Results: The resistivity of the empty placebo Diskus® inhaler was slightly but significantly higher than both blister filled inhalers, with or without powder (0.0215 vs. 0.0211 and 0.0211 (kPa)@sup_begin0.5@sup_end (1 min@sup_begin-1@sup_end)@sup_begin-1@sup_end) (P < 0.001). Conclusion: Patients who are capable of generating sufficient flow through a placebo Diskus® will surely be capable of generating equivalent flows through a Diskus® inhaler containing a strip with active drug substance. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1208/s12249-020-01889-5
Title:Aerosolization Performance, Antitussive Effect and Local Toxicity of Naringenin-Hydroxypropyl-β-Cyclodextrin Inhalation Solution for Pulmonary Delivery
Authors:M. GuanX. ZengR. ShiY. ZhengW. FanW. Su
Absract:The aim of present study was to evaluate the feasibility of a naringenin-hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (naringenin-HPβCD) inhalation solution for pulmonary delivery. Naringenin, a flavanone derived from citrus fruits, has been proven to exhibit excellent peripheral antitussive effect. To address the limitation of its poor oral bioavailability and low local concentration in the lung, a naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution was prepared for pulmonary delivery. The aerosolization performance of formulation was evaluated by next generation impactor (NGI). Both dose-dependent and time-dependent antitussive effects of naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution on acute cough induced by citric acid in guinea pigs were investigated. In vitro toxicity of naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution in pulmonary Calu-3 cells was evaluated by MTS assay, and in vivo local toxicity investigation was achieved by assessing bronchoalveolar lavage (BALF) and lung histology after a 7-day inhalation treatment in guinea pigs. Fine particle fraction (FPF) of the formulation was determined as 53.09%. After inhalation treatment of 15 min, naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution within the studied range of 0.2–3.6 mg/kg could dose-dependently reduce the cough frequency with the antitussive rate of 29.42–39.42%. Naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution in concentration range of 100–400 μM did not decrease cell viability of Calu-3 cells, and the maximum effective dose (3.6 mg/kg) was non-toxic during the short-term inhalation treatment for guinea pigs. In conclusion, naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution was capable for nebulization and could provide rapid response with reduced dose for the treatment of cough.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(78)80001-5
Title:Physico-chemical studies on aerosol solutions for drug delivery. III. The effect of relative humidity on the particle size of inhalation aerosols
Authors:S.S. DavisM.D. Bubb
Absract:The aim of present study was to evaluate the feasibility of a naringenin-hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (naringenin-HPβCD) inhalation solution for pulmonary delivery. Naringenin, a flavanone derived from citrus fruits, has been proven to exhibit excellent peripheral antitussive effect. To address the limitation of its poor oral bioavailability and low local concentration in the lung, a naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution was prepared for pulmonary delivery. The aerosolization performance of formulation was evaluated by next generation impactor (NGI). Both dose-dependent and time-dependent antitussive effects of naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution on acute cough induced by citric acid in guinea pigs were investigated. In vitro toxicity of naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution in pulmonary Calu-3 cells was evaluated by MTS assay, and in vivo local toxicity investigation was achieved by assessing bronchoalveolar lavage (BALF) and lung histology after a 7-day inhalation treatment in guinea pigs. Fine particle fraction (FPF) of the formulation was determined as 53.09%. After inhalation treatment of 15 min, naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution within the studied range of 0.2–3.6 mg/kg could dose-dependently reduce the cough frequency with the antitussive rate of 29.42–39.42%. Naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution in concentration range of 100–400 μM did not decrease cell viability of Calu-3 cells, and the maximum effective dose (3.6 mg/kg) was non-toxic during the short-term inhalation treatment for guinea pigs. In conclusion, naringenin-HPβCD inhalation solution was capable for nebulization and could provide rapid response with reduced dose for the treatment of cough.

doi:10.1208/s12249-019-1382-3
Title:Pulmonary and Regional Deposition of Nebulized and Dry Powder Aerosols in Ferrets
Authors:P.J. KuehlR. ChandJ.D. McDonaldD.L. HavaW.H. DeHaan
Absract:The utilization of ferrets as a non-clinical model for disease is rapidly increasing within drug development. Many of these models include respiratory diseases that involve targeted drug delivery via nose-only inhalation. While the deposition patterns within other non-clinical models (mice, rats, canines, and non-human primates) have been well studied, the local and regional deposition of aerosols in ferrets has not been well characterized. Therefore, inhalation aerosols were developed, radiolabeled and the radiolabeling methods validated to support SPECT-CT imaging and quantification of regional deposition within ferrets. The studies were conducted with one liquid formulation and one dry powder formulation (two concentrations of dry powder). Additionally, both aerosols were polydisperse and therefore reflect the majority of pharmaceutical aerosols. Overall, the studies showed lung deposition fractions between 5 and 10% with median aerodynamic particle sizes of 2.5 and 2.8 μm. The lung deposition fraction of the liquid aerosol was ~ 9%, nearly double observed in rats with a similarly sized aerosol. Analysis of respiratory tract (oropharynx, laryngopharynx, trachea, bifurcation area, and lung) deposition indicates increased deposition of the liquid aerosol compared to the dry powder aerosol, however, when this analysis was refined to the pulmonary region (trachea, bifurcation, and lung) the deposition was similar between formulations. These data provide the first description of the regional deposition of inhalation aerosols in ferrets with standard nose-only inhalation procedures. These data can be used for calculations of both total and regional doses within ferret inhalation drug delivery.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2015.1036067
Title:Inhaled PYY(3-36) dry-powder formulation for appetite suppression
Authors:P.J. KuehlT. BoydenD.E. DobryM. Doyle-EiseleD.T. FriesenJ.D. McDonaldB.G. MurriD.T. VodakD.K. Lyon
Absract:Objective: Peptide YY3-36 [PYY(3-36)] has shown efficacy in appetite suppression when dosed by injection modalities (intraperitoneal (IP)/subcutaneous). Transitioning to needle-free delivery, towards inhalation, often utilizes systemic pharmacokinetics as a key endpoint to compare different delivery methods and doses. Systemic pharmacokinetics were evaluated for PYY3-36 when delivered by IP, subcutaneous, and inhalation, the systemic pharmacokinetics were then used to select doses in an appetite suppression pharmacodynamic study. Methods: Dry-powder formulations were manufactured by spray drying and delivered to mice via nose only inhalation. The systemic plasma, lung tissue, and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid pharmacokinetics of different inhalation doses of PYY(3-36) were compared to IP and subcutaneous efficacious doses. Based on these pharmacokinetic data, inhalation doses of 70:30 PYY(3-36):Dextran T10 were evaluated in a mouse model of appetite suppression and compared to IP and subcutaneous data. Results: Inhalation pharmacokinetic studies showed that plasma exposure was similar for a 2×higher inhalation dose when compared to subcutaneous and IP delivery. Inhalation doses of 0.22 and 0.65 mg/kg were for efficacy studies. The results showed a dose-dependent (not dose proportional) decrease in food consumption over 4 h, which is similar to IP and subcutaneous delivery routes. Conclusions: The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics results substantiate the ability of pharmacokinetic data to inform pharmacodynamics dose selection for inhalation delivery of the peptide PYY(3-36). Additionally, engineered PYY(3-36):Dextran T10 particles delivered to the respiratory tract show promise as a non-invasive therapeutic for appetite suppression.

pui:370210315
Title:Inhalation treatment for asthma: Beclometasone and formoterol for the first time in extra fine formulation as dry powder inhaler
Authors:F. Sandner
Absract:Objective: Peptide YY3-36 [PYY(3-36)] has shown efficacy in appetite suppression when dosed by injection modalities (intraperitoneal (IP)/subcutaneous). Transitioning to needle-free delivery, towards inhalation, often utilizes systemic pharmacokinetics as a key endpoint to compare different delivery methods and doses. Systemic pharmacokinetics were evaluated for PYY3-36 when delivered by IP, subcutaneous, and inhalation, the systemic pharmacokinetics were then used to select doses in an appetite suppression pharmacodynamic study. Methods: Dry-powder formulations were manufactured by spray drying and delivered to mice via nose only inhalation. The systemic plasma, lung tissue, and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid pharmacokinetics of different inhalation doses of PYY(3-36) were compared to IP and subcutaneous efficacious doses. Based on these pharmacokinetic data, inhalation doses of 70:30 PYY(3-36):Dextran T10 were evaluated in a mouse model of appetite suppression and compared to IP and subcutaneous data. Results: Inhalation pharmacokinetic studies showed that plasma exposure was similar for a 2×higher inhalation dose when compared to subcutaneous and IP delivery. Inhalation doses of 0.22 and 0.65 mg/kg were for efficacy studies. The results showed a dose-dependent (not dose proportional) decrease in food consumption over 4 h, which is similar to IP and subcutaneous delivery routes. Conclusions: The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics results substantiate the ability of pharmacokinetic data to inform pharmacodynamics dose selection for inhalation delivery of the peptide PYY(3-36). Additionally, engineered PYY(3-36):Dextran T10 particles delivered to the respiratory tract show promise as a non-invasive therapeutic for appetite suppression.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Solid state modification of ciprofloxacin for high dose dry powder inhalation
Authors:T. HibbardH. Al-ObaidiK. ShanklandB. Nyambura
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

pui:600993567
Title:Fit for the lung?
Authors:J. FaulkesE.J. Mickley
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

doi:10.1023/A:1018983019830
Title:Dosing reproducibility from experimental albuterol suspension metered-dose inhalers
Authors:P.R. Byron
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

pui:93367398
Title:Feasibility of unit dose packaging of medications for inhalation therapy.
Authors:J.R. TalleyR.A. MagarianE.B. Sommers
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

pui:605303567
Title:Gentamicin 40 mg/mL for Inhalation
Authors:L.V. Allen
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

pui:22055844
Title:Symposium trends in intranasal and pulmonary delivery of drugs
Authors:J. Verhoef
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(84)90062-0
Title:The effect of changes in particle size on the deposition of pressurized inhalation aerosols
Authors:S.P. NewmanM. KillipD. Pavia
Absract:Introduction: Ciprofloxacin base is a broad-spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic with strong activity against respiratory pathogens. It is used in this study as a model poorly soluble drug with oral and inhaled applications. Current oral formulations record low lung partitioning hence a need for reformulating to a controlled release or repurposing to an inhaled formulation. Tolerability issues associated with large volumes of powder limit the maximum practical inhalation for dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Inhaled antibiotics require high local concentrations therefore current DPI formulations using coarse carriers such as lactose need modifying to account for this. Research hypothesis/core question: Can solid state modification of ciprofloxacin generate high dose inhalation powders without the need for a carrier? Methods: Cocrystals/salts of ciprofloxacin and four organic acidswere produced through liquid assisted grinding and single crystals grown from solvent. Crystallographic, spectroscopy, and thermal analysiswere used to identify and characterize the products. Inhalation properties of powders were measured through Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Results: All four novel cocrystal/salt formulations of ciprofloxacin showed reduced MMAD compared to ciprofloxacin control (MMAD (lm)=2.41, 2.54, 2.37, 2.31, 8.05, for succinic, glutaric, adipic, pimelic and control respectively). MMAD between 2 and 3 μm has been shown to correspond to ideal lung deposition for DPI formulations. Differences were also seen in the FPF% corresponding to suitable inhalable fractions for the formulations. Conclusion: A novel correlation between improved inhalation properties and solid-state modification has been found. This area should be pursued as a possible route to carrier-free dry powder inhalation.

doi:10.1067/mai.2002.122712
Title:Budesonide inhalation suspension: A nebulized corticosteroid for persistent asthma
Authors:S.J. SzeflerH. Eigen
Absract:Guidelines for managing asthma in pediatric patients published by the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend the use of inhaled corticosteroids for the management of persistent asthma in infants and young children. When these guidelines were published, pressurized metered-dose inhalers and dry-powder inhalers were the only delivery devices available for inhaled corticosteroids in the United States. These devices can be difficult for young children to use correctly. Furthermore, no inhaled corticosteroid was approved in the United States for the treatment of children younger than 4 years. Budesonide inhalation suspension (Pulmicort Respules; AstraZeneca LP, Wilmington, Del) was developed to meet the medication delivery needs of infants and young children with persistent asthma. Pulmicort Respules is the first inhaled corticosteroid approved for administration by means of a nebulizer and the only inhaled corticosteroid approved in the United States for infants as young as 12 months. Budesonide has been studied extensively worldwide. In the United States the tolerability and efficacy of budesonide inhalation suspension were confirmed in 3 placebo-controlled multicenter trials. These studies demonstrated that both once- and twice-daily dosing of bodesonide inhalation suspension (0.25-1 mg) improved pulmonary function and ameliorated asthma symptoms in infants and young children with persistent asthma. Budesonide inhalation suspension was well tolerated, and the incidences of reported adverse events were similar among patients in the budesonide, placebo, and conventional asthma therapy groups. This article reviews the results of these studies, as well as the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical use of budesonide inhalation suspension.

pui:351448550
Title:The adolescent and the spacer: A letter and three replies [3]
Authors:G. Boschi
Absract:Guidelines for managing asthma in pediatric patients published by the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology and the American Academy of Pediatrics recommend the use of inhaled corticosteroids for the management of persistent asthma in infants and young children. When these guidelines were published, pressurized metered-dose inhalers and dry-powder inhalers were the only delivery devices available for inhaled corticosteroids in the United States. These devices can be difficult for young children to use correctly. Furthermore, no inhaled corticosteroid was approved in the United States for the treatment of children younger than 4 years. Budesonide inhalation suspension (Pulmicort Respules; AstraZeneca LP, Wilmington, Del) was developed to meet the medication delivery needs of infants and young children with persistent asthma. Pulmicort Respules is the first inhaled corticosteroid approved for administration by means of a nebulizer and the only inhaled corticosteroid approved in the United States for infants as young as 12 months. Budesonide has been studied extensively worldwide. In the United States the tolerability and efficacy of budesonide inhalation suspension were confirmed in 3 placebo-controlled multicenter trials. These studies demonstrated that both once- and twice-daily dosing of bodesonide inhalation suspension (0.25-1 mg) improved pulmonary function and ameliorated asthma symptoms in infants and young children with persistent asthma. Budesonide inhalation suspension was well tolerated, and the incidences of reported adverse events were similar among patients in the budesonide, placebo, and conventional asthma therapy groups. This article reviews the results of these studies, as well as the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and clinical use of budesonide inhalation suspension.

doi:10.1023/A:1011916930655
Title:A new powder design method to improve inhalation efficiency of pranlukast hydrate dry powder aerosols by surface modification with hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate nanospheres
Authors:Y. KawashimaT. SeriganoT. HinoH. YamamotoH. Takeuchi
Absract:Purpose. A new particle design method to improve the aerosolization properties of a dry powder inhalation system was developed using surface modification of hydrophobic drug powders (pranlukast hydrate) with ultrafine hydrophilic particles, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate (HPMCP) nanospheres. The mechanism of the improved inhalation properties of tile surface-modified particles and their deposits on carrier particles (lactose) was clarified in vitro. Methods. Drag particles were introduced to aqueous colloidal HPMCP dispersions prepared by emulsion-solvent diffusion techniques followed by freeze- or spray-drying of the resultant aqueous dispersions. The surface-modified powders obtained with HPMCP nanospheres and their mixture with lactose powders were aerosolized by Spinhaler and their mode of deposition in lung was evaluated in vitro using a twin impinger. To elucidate the inhalation mechanism of these surface modified particles, we measured their modified micromeritic properties, such as surface topography, specific surface area, dissolution rate, and dispersibility in air. Results. Dramatically improved inhalation properties of the surface modified powder, i.e. a two-fold increase in emission and a three-fold increase in delivery to deep lung, were found in vitro compared with the original unmodified powder. Improved inhalation was also found with the surface-modified drug deposited on lactose particles. Those improvements were attributed to the increased surface roughness and hydrophilicity of the surface-modified particles, and the resultant increased dispersibility in air. Conclusions. Surface modification of hydrophobic drug particles with HPMCP nanospheres to improve hydrophilicity was extremely useful in increasing the inhalation efficiency of the drug itself and the drug deposited on carrier; this was attributed to increased dispersibility in air and emission from the device, for spray- and freeze-dried particles, respectively.

pui:361996701
Title:Pharmaceutical-technological characteristics of modern inhalation drugs in pulmonary disease therapy
Authors:D. VasiljevićM. Primorac
Absract:Inhalation is preferred route for asthma and COPD therapy, since it offers a rapid onset of drug action, requires smaller doses, and reduces systemic effects compared with other routes of administration. Delivering drugs by inhalation requires a formulation that can be successfully aerosolized and a delivery device that produces a useful aerosol of the drug. Three main inhalation devices have been developed: pressurized metered dose inhalers (MDI), dry powder inhalers (DPI) and nebulizers. MDI are very commonly used device for aerosol delivery. However, many patients have poor MDI technique. Valved holding chambers and spacers are used to improve MDI technique. DPI, either unit-dose or multi-dose inhalers, are portable and easy to use. Nebulizers convert liquid formulations into aerosols with a particle size that can be inhaled into the lower respiratory tract. In recent years, several technical innovations have led to aerosol drug delivery devices with efficient drug delivery. These changes have improved performance in all categories of devices. Systematic reviews have suggested that each of these aerosol delivery devices can work equally well in patients who can use them correctly. However, many patients use these devices incorrectly, so proper patient education by pharmacists is very important.

doi:10.4155/tde-2017-0093
Title:Pulmonary aerosol delivery and the importance of growth dynamics
Authors:A.E. HaddrellD. LewisT. ChurchR. VehringD. MurnaneJ.P. Reid
Absract:Aerosols are dynamic systems, responding to variations in the surrounding environmental conditions by changing in size, composition and phase. Although, widely used in inhalation therapies, details of the processes occurring on aerosol generation and during inhalation have received little attention. Instead, research has focused on improvements to the formulation of the drug prior to aerosolization and the resulting clinical efficacy of the treatment. Here, we highlight the processes that occur during aerosol generation and inhalation, affecting aerosol disposition when deposited and, potentially, impacting total and regional doses. In particular, we examine the response of aerosol particles to the humid environment of the respiratory tract, considering both the capacity of particles to grow by absorbing moisture and the timescale for condensation to occur. </inline-graphic.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2021.08.059
Title:“CO in a pill”: Towards oral delivery of carbon monoxide for therapeutic applications
Authors:X. YangW. LuM. WangC. TanB. Wang
Absract:Along with the impressive achievements in understanding the endogenous signaling roles and mechanism(s) of action of carbon monoxide (CO), much research has demonstrated the potential of using CO as a therapeutic agent for treating various diseases. Because of CO's toxicity at high concentrations and the observed difference in toxicity profiles of CO depending on the route of administration, this review analyzes and presents the benefits of developing orally active CO donors. Such compounds have the potential for improved safety profiles, enhancing the chance for developing CO-based therapeutics. In this review, the difference between inhalation and oral administration in terms of toxicity, CO delivery efficiency, and the potential mechanism(s) of action is analyzed. The evolution from CO gas inhalation to oral administration is also extensively analyzed by summarizing published studies up to date. The concept of “CO in a pill” can be achieved by oral administration of novel formulations of CO gas or appropriate CO donors.

pui:27462180
Title:Efficacy and tolerability of fluticasone propionate dose aerosol in patients with bronchial asthma
Authors:C. Uhde
Absract:Type of study: post marketing surveillance study. Subjects: 12688 patients with obstructive airways disease in 3712 study centres. Tested drug: inhaled corticosteroid fluticasone propionate via metered dose inhaler (MDI) or powder inhalation device (Rotadisk® or Diskus®). Results: 12688 patients with obstructive airways disease were treated with fluticason propionate via MDI or powder inhalation device for about four weeks. Most of them (> 80%) were asthmatics. During treatment symptoms like cough, dyspnoea and wheezing improved. Lung function parameters (Peak-Flow, FEV1) increased, too. The overall incidence of adverse events was low (0.8%). The results suggest that fluticasone propionate is an effective and well tolerated treatment in patients with asthma.

pui:14222159
Title:Experience with the inhalation of Berotec powder in the treatment of asthma in children
Authors:N. Bach Mortensen
Absract:The inhalation of Berotec powder by means of a powder inhaler is effective treatment of asthma and as porphylaxis against exercise-induced asthma. The inhaler has been used by children down to the age of 3 years and by several of 4 years of age. It is more simple and more rapid to instruct the children in the use of a powder inhaler than in the use of a metered dose aerosol. A few children can be afraid of the spray, but none of the children studied have shown any fear of the powder inhaler. There is a need for investigations of the effects in severe attacks of asthma.

doi:10.1002/ppul.21356
Title:Tobramycin inhalation powder for P. aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis: The EVOLVE trial
Authors:M.W. KonstanD.E. GellerP. MinićF. BrockhausJ. ZhangG. Angyalosi
Absract:Tobramycin inhalation solution is used to treat chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a novel, light-porous particle, dry-powder formulation of tobramycin, which was developed to improve delivery efficiency to the airways and substantially reduce the delivery time. In this randomized, double-blind study, patients with CF (age 6-21 years) received tobramycin inhalation powder (112mg tobramycin) twice daily (n=46) or placebo (n=49) via the T-326 Inhaler for one cycle, followed by two open-label cycles (all patients). Cycles were 28 days on, 28 days off treatment. The primary endpoint was change in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) % predicted from baseline to Day 28 of Cycle 1. The study was terminated early based on positive results in the interim analysis. Tobramycin inhalation powder significantly improved FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end % predicted versus placebo at Day 28 (difference 13.3, 95% CI: 5.31-21.28; P=0.0016). Similar changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were seen in patients switching from placebo to tobramycin inhalation powder in Cycle 2; improvements were maintained over time. Tobramycin inhalation powder also reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density, respiratory related hospitalization and antipseudomonal antibiotic use versus placebo. The most common adverse event was cough; the frequency of coughwas higher in patients receiving placebo (26.5%) versus tobramycin inhalation powder (13.0%) in Cycle 1. Tobramycin inhalation powder was not associated with ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity. Administration time was between 4 and 6 min. In conclusion, tobramycin inhalation powder was effective and well tolerated in CF patients, and may offer an important treatment option to decrease the treatment burden of CF pseudomonas lung infections. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

pui:43080769
Title:Apomorphine hydrochloride, inhalation
Authors:N.E. MealyM. Bayés
Absract:Tobramycin inhalation solution is used to treat chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a novel, light-porous particle, dry-powder formulation of tobramycin, which was developed to improve delivery efficiency to the airways and substantially reduce the delivery time. In this randomized, double-blind study, patients with CF (age 6-21 years) received tobramycin inhalation powder (112mg tobramycin) twice daily (n=46) or placebo (n=49) via the T-326 Inhaler for one cycle, followed by two open-label cycles (all patients). Cycles were 28 days on, 28 days off treatment. The primary endpoint was change in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) % predicted from baseline to Day 28 of Cycle 1. The study was terminated early based on positive results in the interim analysis. Tobramycin inhalation powder significantly improved FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end % predicted versus placebo at Day 28 (difference 13.3, 95% CI: 5.31-21.28; P=0.0016). Similar changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were seen in patients switching from placebo to tobramycin inhalation powder in Cycle 2; improvements were maintained over time. Tobramycin inhalation powder also reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density, respiratory related hospitalization and antipseudomonal antibiotic use versus placebo. The most common adverse event was cough; the frequency of coughwas higher in patients receiving placebo (26.5%) versus tobramycin inhalation powder (13.0%) in Cycle 1. Tobramycin inhalation powder was not associated with ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity. Administration time was between 4 and 6 min. In conclusion, tobramycin inhalation powder was effective and well tolerated in CF patients, and may offer an important treatment option to decrease the treatment burden of CF pseudomonas lung infections. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

pui:622602284
Title:Global report - 2017 global drug delivery & formulation report: Part 4, the drug delivery & formulation pipeline
Authors:K. SedoT. Kararli
Absract:Tobramycin inhalation solution is used to treat chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a novel, light-porous particle, dry-powder formulation of tobramycin, which was developed to improve delivery efficiency to the airways and substantially reduce the delivery time. In this randomized, double-blind study, patients with CF (age 6-21 years) received tobramycin inhalation powder (112mg tobramycin) twice daily (n=46) or placebo (n=49) via the T-326 Inhaler for one cycle, followed by two open-label cycles (all patients). Cycles were 28 days on, 28 days off treatment. The primary endpoint was change in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) % predicted from baseline to Day 28 of Cycle 1. The study was terminated early based on positive results in the interim analysis. Tobramycin inhalation powder significantly improved FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end % predicted versus placebo at Day 28 (difference 13.3, 95% CI: 5.31-21.28; P=0.0016). Similar changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were seen in patients switching from placebo to tobramycin inhalation powder in Cycle 2; improvements were maintained over time. Tobramycin inhalation powder also reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density, respiratory related hospitalization and antipseudomonal antibiotic use versus placebo. The most common adverse event was cough; the frequency of coughwas higher in patients receiving placebo (26.5%) versus tobramycin inhalation powder (13.0%) in Cycle 1. Tobramycin inhalation powder was not associated with ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity. Administration time was between 4 and 6 min. In conclusion, tobramycin inhalation powder was effective and well tolerated in CF patients, and may offer an important treatment option to decrease the treatment burden of CF pseudomonas lung infections. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

pui:17233386
Title:Anoxia caused by pure nitrous oxide resulting from inadequate French standards
Authors:B. LoiselC. Loisel
Absract:Tobramycin inhalation solution is used to treat chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a novel, light-porous particle, dry-powder formulation of tobramycin, which was developed to improve delivery efficiency to the airways and substantially reduce the delivery time. In this randomized, double-blind study, patients with CF (age 6-21 years) received tobramycin inhalation powder (112mg tobramycin) twice daily (n=46) or placebo (n=49) via the T-326 Inhaler for one cycle, followed by two open-label cycles (all patients). Cycles were 28 days on, 28 days off treatment. The primary endpoint was change in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) % predicted from baseline to Day 28 of Cycle 1. The study was terminated early based on positive results in the interim analysis. Tobramycin inhalation powder significantly improved FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end % predicted versus placebo at Day 28 (difference 13.3, 95% CI: 5.31-21.28; P=0.0016). Similar changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were seen in patients switching from placebo to tobramycin inhalation powder in Cycle 2; improvements were maintained over time. Tobramycin inhalation powder also reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density, respiratory related hospitalization and antipseudomonal antibiotic use versus placebo. The most common adverse event was cough; the frequency of coughwas higher in patients receiving placebo (26.5%) versus tobramycin inhalation powder (13.0%) in Cycle 1. Tobramycin inhalation powder was not associated with ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity. Administration time was between 4 and 6 min. In conclusion, tobramycin inhalation powder was effective and well tolerated in CF patients, and may offer an important treatment option to decrease the treatment burden of CF pseudomonas lung infections. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1007/BF03013242
Title:Essential oil to promote inhalational induction in children [5]
Authors:S. MehtaD.N. StoneH.E. Whitehead
Absract:Tobramycin inhalation solution is used to treat chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of a novel, light-porous particle, dry-powder formulation of tobramycin, which was developed to improve delivery efficiency to the airways and substantially reduce the delivery time. In this randomized, double-blind study, patients with CF (age 6-21 years) received tobramycin inhalation powder (112mg tobramycin) twice daily (n=46) or placebo (n=49) via the T-326 Inhaler for one cycle, followed by two open-label cycles (all patients). Cycles were 28 days on, 28 days off treatment. The primary endpoint was change in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) % predicted from baseline to Day 28 of Cycle 1. The study was terminated early based on positive results in the interim analysis. Tobramycin inhalation powder significantly improved FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end % predicted versus placebo at Day 28 (difference 13.3, 95% CI: 5.31-21.28; P=0.0016). Similar changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were seen in patients switching from placebo to tobramycin inhalation powder in Cycle 2; improvements were maintained over time. Tobramycin inhalation powder also reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density, respiratory related hospitalization and antipseudomonal antibiotic use versus placebo. The most common adverse event was cough; the frequency of coughwas higher in patients receiving placebo (26.5%) versus tobramycin inhalation powder (13.0%) in Cycle 1. Tobramycin inhalation powder was not associated with ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity. Administration time was between 4 and 6 min. In conclusion, tobramycin inhalation powder was effective and well tolerated in CF patients, and may offer an important treatment option to decrease the treatment burden of CF pseudomonas lung infections. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4899-8011-3_18
Title:The challenges of paediatric pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:D. MurnaneM.B. Brown
Absract:The lungs offer a (relatively) easy access route by inhalation for drug delivery, both in terms of topical therapy of lung conditions as well as for systemically acting therapies. In paediatric therapy, it is the former which has been most exploited for the delivery of agents such as bronchodilators, corticosteroids and antibiotics where localized drug delivery can minimize systemic exposure and resultant side-effects.

pui:14203528
Title:Effects of ipratropium bromide in powder form on airway resistance in chronic obstructive disease
Authors:R. GotzG. Siemon
Absract:The effects of ipratropium bromide in powder form on the mechanics of breathing and the blood gases were investigated in 24 persons with obstructive airways disease. The powder was inhaled in 1, 3 or 7 breaths and the effect was observed for up to 6 hours later. 3 puffs proved sufficient to inhale the contents of the capsule. Within 10 minutes after inhaling the drug there was a highly significant improvement which lasted for 4 hours. Application of the powder was simple and easily learnt. Advantages are the avoidance of propellants and the release of the drug only during inspiration.

pui:619222677
Title:An overview of dry powder inhalation for systemic drug delivery
Authors:B.E. JonesS.E. Probst
Absract:The effects of ipratropium bromide in powder form on the mechanics of breathing and the blood gases were investigated in 24 persons with obstructive airways disease. The powder was inhaled in 1, 3 or 7 breaths and the effect was observed for up to 6 hours later. 3 puffs proved sufficient to inhale the contents of the capsule. Within 10 minutes after inhaling the drug there was a highly significant improvement which lasted for 4 hours. Application of the powder was simple and easily learnt. Advantages are the avoidance of propellants and the release of the drug only during inspiration.

pui:29166547
Title:New approaches to aerosol therapy
Authors:P. Haidl
Absract:New approaches in the field of aerosol therapy are pointing into two directions. In one, chlorofluorocarbons are now beginning to make place for the hydrofluoroalkanes - which are non-destructive of the ozone layer - as propellants for use in metered-dose inhalers. On the other hand, the use and new development of dry powder inhalation devices are on the increase. In the future, systemic pharmacotherapy applied via aerosols will provide an important option for use not only in the field of pneumology, but also, for example, in the treatment of diabetes mellitus and for anticoagulation.

pui:20168637
Title:In vivo evaluation of the new multiple dose powder inhaler and the Rotahaler using the gamma scintigraphy
Authors:M. VidgrenP. ParonenP. VidgrenP. VainioJ. Nuutinen
Absract:New approaches in the field of aerosol therapy are pointing into two directions. In one, chlorofluorocarbons are now beginning to make place for the hydrofluoroalkanes - which are non-destructive of the ozone layer - as propellants for use in metered-dose inhalers. On the other hand, the use and new development of dry powder inhalation devices are on the increase. In the future, systemic pharmacotherapy applied via aerosols will provide an important option for use not only in the field of pneumology, but also, for example, in the treatment of diabetes mellitus and for anticoagulation.

pui:43141383
Title:Medical rehabilitation update: Using metered-dose inhaler in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:H.-P. So
Absract:Metered-dose inhaler is frequently prescribed to clients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The use of spacer device is the preferred method and larger spacer works better. The technique of inhalation is discussed alongside with evidence in supporting the advice.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119255
Title:Efficient optimization of high-dose formulation of novel lyophilizates for dry powder inhalation by the combination of response surface methodology and time-of-flight measurement
Authors:R. OhoriS. KiuchiS. SugiyamaK. MiyamotoT. AkitaC. Yamashita
Absract:Inhalation of proteins/peptides has recently received attention as various biopharmaceuticals have emerged on the market. Novel lyophilisates for dry powder inhalation (LDPIs), which are aerosolized by air impact, have been reported and LDPIs are considered an attractive option for the pulmonary administration of biopharmaceuticals. However, desirable disintegration and aerosolization properties have been unavailable in high-dose formulations, which has been a critical issue. This study aimed to investigate high-dose LDPIs and their optimization. In the present study, lysozyme (Lysoz) was used as a stable model protein and formulated with various amino acids. Furthermore, response surface methodology (RSM) and time-of-flight measurement were applied for efficient optimization. Superior disintegration and aerosolization properties were confirmed in the LDPIs with phenylalanine (Phe) and leucine (Leu). RSM results revealed that 0.5 mg/vial of Phe and 1.0 mg/vial of Leu are the optimal quantities for high-dose formulation. Based on these optimum quantities, high-dose LDPI formulations were prepared and the maximum formulable quantity of Lysoz with acceptable inhalation performance was confirmed to be 3.0 mg/vial. The results suggest that LDPI can cover the milligram-order pulmonary administration of proteins/peptides. LDPIs are expected to have biopharmaceutical applications.

doi:10.1016/j.jcf.2006.03.007
Title:Inhalation solutions - which one are allowed to be mixed? Physico-chemical compatibility of drug solutions in nebulizers
Authors:W. KaminA. SchwabeI. Krämer
Absract:Therapy of chronic respiratory diseases often involves inhalation therapy with nebulizers. Patients often attempt to shorten the time consuming administration procedure by mixing drug solutions/suspensions for simultaneous inhalation. This article considers the issue of physico-chemical compatibility of admixtures of drug solutions/suspensions in nebulizers. A search of databases, prescribing information and primary literature was conducted to locate literature concerning the physico-chemical compatibility of inhalation solutions/suspensions. This was supplemented by telephone interviews. Admixtures of albuterol with ipratropium and/or cromolyn, of albuterol and budesonide, or tobramycin, or colistin are physico-chemically compatible. Physico-chemical compatibility has been demonstrated for admixtures of cromolyn with albuterol and/or ipratropium and for admixtures of cromolyn and budesonide. Admixtures of budesonide with ipratropium and/or fenoterol, and admixtures of budesonide and albuterol, or cromolyn are physico-chemically compatible. Both cromolyn and colistin are incompatible with benzalkonium chloride. Admixtures should be prepared from inhalation solutions/suspensions formulated without preservatives. Besides studies of the physico-chemical compatibility, the aerodynamic behaviour of physico-chemical mixtures needs to be studied before a final recommendation of simultaneous nebulization of compatible admixtures can be made. © 2006 European Cystic Fibrosis Society.

doi:10.1046/j.1475-097X.2002.00421.x
Title:Insulin inhalation with absorption enhancer at meal-times results in almost normal postprandial insulin profiles
Authors:L.-O. AlmérP. WollmerB. JonsonA. Troedsson Almér
Absract:Background: Conventional insulin therapy with subcutaneous injections of regular insulin at meal-times result in plasma insulin peaks that are lower and appear later than meal related insulin peaks in healthy individuals. The present study was designed in order to evaluate the resulting insulin concentrations in peripheral blood after inhalation of micro crystalline human insulin together with an absorption enhancer [dioctyl sodium sulphosuccinate (DOSS)] via a powder inhaler. Methods: Ten insulin dependent middle-aged non-obese diabetic patients (mean diabetes duration 21 years) were included. Blood samples for glucose and insulin were taken immediately before and 13 times, up to 300 min, after insulin inhalation. The mass median aerodynamic diameter of the particles was 3.2 μm. The inhaled insulin dose was 39 U. Results: Within 5 min after the end of the 2 min inhalation procedure the mean increase of insulin was 7.0 μU ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end, and the mean maximum concentration, 12.1 μU ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end, was reached between 20 and 30 min. There was then a slow decline until base-line was reached after around 210 min and there were no adverse events. Conclusions: Inhalation of a mixture of 39 U of insulin and enhancer resulted in a rapid plasma insulin peak with a slow decline, similar to the normal postprandial insulin profile.

doi:10.1016/j.jsps.2019.11.007
Title:The effect of inspiratory parameters after two separate inhalations on the dose emission of theophylline from low and high resistance dry powder inhalers
Authors:M. AbadelahJ. Al-AssadiJ. RooneyH. Larhrib
Absract:The dose emission from DPIs can be affected by the inspiratory parameters achieved by the patient as well as the device in-use. Conventional in-vitro dose emission methodology was used, but instead of using inhalation volume (Vin) of 2 or 4 L and peak inhalation flow (PIF) corresponding to 4 kPa, a range of PIFs (28.3, 60, 90 and 120 L min@sup_begin−1@sup_end) and Vins (0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, and 4 L) were used. The formulation was composed of spray dried Theophylline as a model drug with Lactohale® α lactose monohydrate carrier. The formulation was aerosolised using two DPIs; a low resistance Breezhaler® and high resistance Handihaler®. The formulation showed a consistent dose content uniformity with a Coefficient of Variation (CV) of 1.70%. The drug distribution on the surface of the carrier was obvious from the SE micrographs with some drug particles lodged into lactose crevices. The dose emission after the first inhalation (ED1) and total emitted dose (TED) of theophylline increased with PIF and Vin, irrespective of the inhaler device. However, the dose delivered was superior for the Handihaler® compared to Breezhaler®. Drug retention in the capsule and device was high at low PIFs and Vins and reduced after the second inhalation. Therefore, our study supports the recommendations for patients who cannot achieve sufficient PIF and Vin to inhale twice for each dose to ensure the better clinical outcome.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Quantification of surface composition and distribution of inhalation powders using TOF-SIMS
Authors:M. NicholasM. JosefsonM. FranssonJ. WilbsC. RoosC. BoissierK. Thalberg
Absract:Surface properties are often critical to the behaviour of powder formulations, especially in the case of dry powders for inhalation, as surface properties directly affect inter-particulate forces and, hence, the dispersibility of the formulation. A multivariate TOF-SIMS (time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry) methodology has been developed and applied to quantify surface composition and chemical distribution for dry powder blends. The mass spectrum at each pixel was fitted to a linear combination of reference spectra obtained by non-negatively constrained alternating least squares. From the pixel compositions, average surface coverage and a range of other image features were calculated. Two kinds of blended systems have been examined: 1. coating agents (magnesium stearate, leucine, and sodium stearyl fumarate [PRUV®]) individually blended with carrier lactose 2. inhalation drugs (beclomethasone dipropionate, budesonide, and salbutamol sulfate) individually blended with carrier lactose For both kinds of systems, detailed insight into the surface composition and structure could be derived. For the coating agent/lactose systems, TOF-SIMS results were compared with results from a complementary surface analysis technique, XPS (X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy). Highlights: 1. Quantification of surface coverage of inhalation powders demonstrated. 2. Quantification of surface chemical structure of inhalation powders demonstrated. 3. PRUV® coats lactose carrier as completely but more thinly than magnesium stearate. 4. 2% salbutamol sulfate coats lactose carrier completely using high shear mixing.

pui:373383508
Title:Formulation methods & size reduction: For inhalers
Authors:B. Dekens
Absract:Surface properties are often critical to the behaviour of powder formulations, especially in the case of dry powders for inhalation, as surface properties directly affect inter-particulate forces and, hence, the dispersibility of the formulation. A multivariate TOF-SIMS (time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry) methodology has been developed and applied to quantify surface composition and chemical distribution for dry powder blends. The mass spectrum at each pixel was fitted to a linear combination of reference spectra obtained by non-negatively constrained alternating least squares. From the pixel compositions, average surface coverage and a range of other image features were calculated. Two kinds of blended systems have been examined: 1. coating agents (magnesium stearate, leucine, and sodium stearyl fumarate [PRUV®]) individually blended with carrier lactose 2. inhalation drugs (beclomethasone dipropionate, budesonide, and salbutamol sulfate) individually blended with carrier lactose For both kinds of systems, detailed insight into the surface composition and structure could be derived. For the coating agent/lactose systems, TOF-SIMS results were compared with results from a complementary surface analysis technique, XPS (X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy). Highlights: 1. Quantification of surface coverage of inhalation powders demonstrated. 2. Quantification of surface chemical structure of inhalation powders demonstrated. 3. PRUV® coats lactose carrier as completely but more thinly than magnesium stearate. 4. 2% salbutamol sulfate coats lactose carrier completely using high shear mixing.

pui:37101882
Title:Special delivery
Authors:L. Bush
Absract:Surface properties are often critical to the behaviour of powder formulations, especially in the case of dry powders for inhalation, as surface properties directly affect inter-particulate forces and, hence, the dispersibility of the formulation. A multivariate TOF-SIMS (time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry) methodology has been developed and applied to quantify surface composition and chemical distribution for dry powder blends. The mass spectrum at each pixel was fitted to a linear combination of reference spectra obtained by non-negatively constrained alternating least squares. From the pixel compositions, average surface coverage and a range of other image features were calculated. Two kinds of blended systems have been examined: 1. coating agents (magnesium stearate, leucine, and sodium stearyl fumarate [PRUV®]) individually blended with carrier lactose 2. inhalation drugs (beclomethasone dipropionate, budesonide, and salbutamol sulfate) individually blended with carrier lactose For both kinds of systems, detailed insight into the surface composition and structure could be derived. For the coating agent/lactose systems, TOF-SIMS results were compared with results from a complementary surface analysis technique, XPS (X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy). Highlights: 1. Quantification of surface coverage of inhalation powders demonstrated. 2. Quantification of surface chemical structure of inhalation powders demonstrated. 3. PRUV® coats lactose carrier as completely but more thinly than magnesium stearate. 4. 2% salbutamol sulfate coats lactose carrier completely using high shear mixing.

doi:10.31838/ijpr/2021.13.01.688
Title:A systematic review on technical aspects in the development of dry powder inhalers (DPI)
Authors:P.S. GondhaleB.V. Cheriyan
Absract:Bronchial asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and cystic fibrosis (CF) are diseases characterized by chronic inflammation and increased mucus secretion leading to airflow limitation, parenchymal destruction and the development of chronic dyspnea. Many patients with COPD are further affected by acute exacerbations which results in lung malfunction, decreases quality of life and mortality. Dry powder inhalers are dry free flowing powdered formulations of the drug, prepared by either spray-drying or micronization of a blend consisting of the drug and suitable inert carrier. DPI formulations are delivered as an aerosol by using DPI devices. DPI is a choice for drug delivery as they are easy to operate and has greater patient compliance. Most of the DPIs are bronchodilators, (salmeterol), corticosteroids (Budesonide, Fluticasone) and Anticholinergics (Tiotropium).Combination of bronchodilators with corticosteroids and anticholinergic drug can be used for effective management of pulmonary diseases. The drug particles which are delivered to the lungs are below 5 µm, this is achieved by drug molecules blending with carrier particles preferably lactose to help provide bulk and facilitate dispersion mechanism. DPI formulations are widely accepted. A major concern among physicians in their daily clinical practices is that inter and intra patient variability of the drug dosage delivered to the deep lungs from the inhalation devices. This variability is dependent on drug formulation, its design and patient inhalation profile. This article is a compilation of various issues observed in the development of DPI’s.

pui:72042558
Title:Inhaled therapies: A novel, biophysical model of drug deposition using computational fluid dynamics (CFD)
Authors:A. KuttlerT. Dimke
Absract:Introduction Forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) is a direct measure of lung function and airway restriction. Due to the large inter-individual variability observed among patients and low signal to noise ratio for FEV1 measurements, assessment of dose-response relationship for inhaled therapeutics can be challenging. Particle size distribution of the drug, formulation, inhalation device performance, patient inspiration characteristics and airway physiology are few of the responsible factors that have a direct influence in establishing a dose-response relationship for inhaled therapeutics. Therefore a novel modeling & simulation strategy was designed to understand sources of variability in the causal chain for an optimized lung deposition of inhaled therapeutics. This innovative tool uses computational fluid dynamics (CFD) in combination with laser diffraction (LD), next generation impactor (NGI), particle image velocimetry (PIV) and computed tomography (CT) measurements to study the distribution of inhaled drug particles under different simulated conditions. Methods A CFD model and innovative measurements for the characterization of inhaler release conditions and feasibility studies with different formulations were conducted. Several CFD model variations of the upper respiratory tract were generated based on a CT image dataset. An artificial mouth-throat model was used to show the accuracy of the computational model. Results The CFD model based on a CT image dataset showed that the inhalational device performance was dependent on inhalation rate and particle formulation. The initial outcome of the project visually demonstrated a relationship between the particle size and its regional deposition in the respiratory tract. Larger particle tend to deposit on the oral cavity, whereas smaller particles had extensive peripheral distribution (figure). Conclusions This study is a major step towards disease-dependent deposition modeling. The outcome of the project will help to develop a quality-by-design tool that can aid in improving the performance of inhaled drugs during the development phase, make accurate dose predictions, and find clinical relevant particle size specifications to ensure product quality (for different drug/device combination and in relation to specific disease requirements). (Figure Presented).

doi:10.1111/jcpt.12521
Title:Clinical implications of Pseudomonas aeruginosa location in the lungs of patients with cystic fibrosis
Authors:J.E. MooreP. Mastoridis
Absract:What is known and objective: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the leading cause of lung infection in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Antibiotics are regarded as the foundational pharmacological treatment for the suppressive management of chronic P. aeruginosa infections and to eradicate the first infection by P. aeruginosa. Inhalation remains a preferred route for drug administration, providing direct access to the site of infection while minimizing systemic side effects. Effective suppressive management of P. aeruginosa infections, however, requires an understanding of the location of the bacteria in the lungs and consideration of the factors that could limit access of the inhaled antibiotic to the infected area. This review provides a systematic assessment of the scientific literature to gain insight into the location of P. aeruginosa in the lungs of patients with CF and its clinical implications. The characteristics of antibiotic inhalation systems are also discussed in this context. Methods: We reviewed evidence-based literature from both human and animal studies in which P. aeruginosa lung location was reported. Relevant publications were identified through a screening strategy and summarized by reported P. aeruginosa location. Results and discussion: Most areas of the conductive and respiratory zones of the lungs are susceptible to P. aeruginosa colonization. Deposition of an inhaled antibiotic is dependent on the device and formulation characteristics, as well as the ability of the patient to generate sufficient inhaled volume. As patients with CF often experience a decline in lung function, the challenge is to ensure that the inhaled antibiotic can be delivered throughout the bronchial tree. What is new and conclusion: An effective drug delivery system that can target P. aeruginosa in both the respiratory and conductive zones is required. The chosen inhalation device should also offer a drug formulation that can be quickly and effectively delivered to specific lung locations, with minimal inspiratory effort from the patient.

doi:10.1023/A:1020492213172
Title:Improved inhalation behavior of steroid KSR-592 in vitro with Jethaler® by polymorphic transformation to needle-like crystals (β-form)
Authors:K. IkegamiY. KawashimaH. TakeuchiH. YamamotoN. IsshikiD.-I. MomoseK. Ouchi
Absract:Purpose. The aim of the present study was to improve the dry powder inhalation behavior of steroid KSR-592 with lactose by altering the crystal shape and the particle size of the drug for use in a newly designed inhalation device, Jethaler®. Method. The shape of the crystals was changed by polymorphic transformation of original crystal (α-form) to β-form by agitating α-form crystals in hexane containing 5% ethanol. The inhalation properties of the resultant crystals in vitro were evaluated with a twin impinger and cascade impactor. Results. Needle-like crystals (β-form) with dimensions of 1.8 μm in width × 41μm in length were obtained by the polymorphic transformation, the kinetics of which was described by the Avrami equation. The β-form crystals loaded on lactose particles were easily separated and crushed into fine particles in the airstream produced in the Jethaler®, which increased dramatically the respirable fraction (RF) deposited in the twin impinger (43.8%) and the fine particle fraction (FPF) of the cascade impactor (FPF = 39.3%) compared with their values for the original crystals (RF = 5.8%, FPF = 4.7%). Conclusion. The dry powder inhalation properties of steroid KSR-592 (platelike crystal, α-form) were improved dramatically by changing the crystal shape to a needle-like shape by the polymorphic transformation to the β-form.

doi:10.4155/tde-2020-0101
Title:Formulation and clinical perspectives of inhalation-based nanocarrier delivery: A new archetype in lung cancer treatment
Authors:D. BardoliwalaA. JaviaS. GhoshA. MisraK. Sawant
Absract:Despite tremendous research in targeted delivery and specific molecular inhibitors (gene delivery), cytotoxic drug delivery through inhalation has been seen as a core part in the treatment of the lung cancer. Inhalation delivery provides a high dose of the drug directly to the lungs without affecting other body organs, increasing the therapeutic ratio. This article reviews the research performed over the last several decades regarding inhalation delivery of various cancer therapeutics for the treatment of lung cancer. Nevertheless, pulmonary administration of nanocarrier-based cancer therapeutics for lung cancer therapy is still in its infancy and faces greater than expected challenges. This article focuses on the current inhalable nanocarrier-based drugs for lung cancer treatment.

doi:10.1007/s11095-004-7668-4
Title:The rate of drug particle detachment from carrier crystals in an air classifier-based inhaler
Authors:A.H. De BoerP. HagedoornD. GjaltemaD. LambregtsM. IrngartingerH.W. Frijlink
Absract:Purpose. To investigate the rate with which drug particles are detached from carrier particles in adhesive mixtures when the action of the separation forces during inhalation is sustained by circulation of the powder dose in an air classifier. Methods. Residual drug on retained carrier particles from different adhesive mixture compositions has been analyzed after different circulation times in the classifier (0.5 to 6 s). For calculation of the detachment rate within the first 0.5 s of inhalation, the optical concentration of the aerosol from the classifier has been measured with laser diffraction technique. Results. Drug detachment from carrier crystals during inhalation increases not only with the flow rate but also with the time during which the action of the separation forces (at a constant flow rate) is sustained. The detachment rate at the same flow rate varies with the carrier size fraction and carrier payload and is clearly highest within the first 0.5 s of inhalation. Conclusions. Drug detachment from carrier approaches first-order reaction within the first half-second of inhalation. But at longer circulation times in the classifier, the ratio of removal to adhesive forces decreases dramatically. To increase the detached fraction of drug during inhalation at a constant flow rate, a short residence time for the powder in the de-agglomerator between 0.5 and 2 s is desired. © 2004 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1248/yakushi.12-00209
Title:Strategic formulation study on dry powder inhalation system based on modulated molecular properties and controlled pharmacokinetics
Authors:S. Onoue
Absract:Cyclosporine A (CsA) has been widely used as an immunosuppressive agent, and recent outcomes from clinical studies are indicative of the potent therapeutic potential of CsA for chronic asthma and airway inflammation. The clinical use of CsA for airway inflammatory diseases is partly limited because of low oral bioavailability and severe systemic side effects. A number of CsA dosage forms have been proposed to overcome these drawbacks, for example, nebulizer formulation and metered-dose inhaler formulation for inhalation therapy, whereas these liquid formulations sometimes contain organic solvents and other solubilizers, leading to local irritant potency. In this context, our group developed a dry powder inhalation (DPI) system of CsA, employing a polymer-based amorphous solid dispersion (ASD) approach, for inhalation therapy on airway inflammations. There was marked improvement in dissolution behavior of the ASD formulation compared with that of an amorphous CsA. The new DPI system of CsA exhibited high dispersibility and suitable particle distribution for inhalation therapy. In vivo experiments demonstrated that inhaled DPI system of CsA attenuated inflammatory events in experimental asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) model rats as evidenced by a decrease of infiltrated granulocytes, and there was no excessive increase in systemic exposure of CsA at a pharmacologically effective dose, possibly leading to reduced systemic side effects. From these findings, combination use of CsA-loaded ASD and DPI systems might be a promising approach for the treatment of airway inflammatory diseases with improved pharmacodynamics and lower systemic exposure. © 2013 The Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1166/jbn.2009.036
Title:Solid lipid nanoparticles as insulin inhalation carriers for enhanced pulmonary delivery
Authors:R. BiW. ShaoQ. WangN. Zhang
Absract:Growing attentions have been paid to the pulmonary route for systemic delivery of peptide and protein drugs, such as insulin. Advantages of this non-injective route include rapid drug deposition in the target organ, fewer systemic side effects and avoiding first pass metabolism. However, sustained release formulations for pulmonary delivery have not been fully exploited till now. In our study, a novel dry powder inhalation (DPI) system of insulin loaded solid lipid nanoparticles (Ins-SLNs) was investigated for prolonged drug release, improved stability and effective inhalation. Firstly, the drug was incorporated into the lipid carriers for a maximum entrapment efficiency as high as 69.47 ± 3.27% (n = 3). Secondly, DPI formulation was prepared by spray freeze drying of Ins-SLNs suspension, with optimized lyoprotectant and technique parameters in this procedure. The properties of DPI particles were characterized for their pulmonary delivery potency. Thirdly, the in vivo study of intratracheal instillation of Ins-SLNs to diabetic rats showed prolonged hypoglycemic effect and a relative pharmacological bioavailability of 44.40% could be achieved in the group of 8 IU/kg dosage. These results indicated that SLNs have shown increasing potential as an efficient and non-toxic lipophilic colloidal drug carrier for enhanced pulmonary delivery of insulin. Copyright © 2009 American Scientific Publishers. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13050632
Title:Optimization of very low-dose formulation of vitamin D@sub_begin3@sub_end with lyophilizate for dry powder inhalation system by simple method based on time-of-flight theory
Authors:K. MiyamotoM. YanagisawaH. TagaH. YamajiT. AkitaC. Yamashita
Absract:It has been previously reported that active vitamin D3 (VD3) is a candidate drug that can repair alveolar damage in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at a very low dose. We herein report the optimization of a very low-dose formulation of VD3 for dry powder inhalation by a simple method based on time-of-flight (TOF) theory. As the preparation content of VD3 is very low, aerodynamic particle size distribution cannot be measured by pharmacopeial methods that require quantification of the main drug. Thus, a simple method based on TOF theory, which can measure aerodynamic particle size distribution without quantification, was used. The optimized formulation for an inhalation system using a lyophilized cake contained phenylalanine as the excipient (VD3 1 µg/vial + phenylalanine 0.3 mg/vial) and showed high performance with fine particle fraction ≤ 3 µm = 47.2 ± 4.4%. The difference between the results of pharmacopeial methods and simple method was examined using the formulation containing 10 µg/vial of VD3 and was within 5.0%. The preparation is expected to efficiently deliver VD3 to the lungs. Our simple method can optimize dry powder inhalation formulations more easily and rapidly even when the content of the main drug in a preparation is very low.

doi:10.1007/s40005-013-0054-7
Title:Development of tiotropium inhalation formulations for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:N.M. OhK.T. OhY.S. YounD.-K. LeeK.-H. ChaE.S. Lee
Absract:Tiotropium, a longer acting anticholinergic bronchodilator, has been widely used for treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). To improve the therapeutic effect of tiotropium, we developed various inhalation microparticular formulations of tiotropium using starch, hyaluronate, bovine serum albumin (BSA), and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA). All formulations showed ~90 % inhalation efficiency in the lung epithelium of BALB/c mice after initial administration. Interestingly, when compared to other formulations using starch, hyaluronate, and BSA, the inhalation formulation of tiotropium using PLGA showed longer drug residence (up to 7 days) in in vivo lung epithelium. We believe that this microparticle system is expected to improve the treatment efficacy for the patients with COPD by maintaining drug therapeutic effect during the extended period after initial inhalation. © 2013 The Korean Society of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Technology.

pui:373569303
Title:Ribavirin 33 mg/mL sterile inhalation solution
Authors:L.V. Allen
Absract:Method of Preparation: Note-This formulation should be prepared according to strict aseptic compounding technique in a laminar airflow hood in a cleanroom or via isolation barrier technology by a compounding pharmacist who is validated in aseptic compounding. This is a high-risk preparation. Calculate the quantity of each ingredient for the amount to be prepared. Accurately weigh or measure each ingredient. Dissolve the ribavirin and sodium chloride in sufficient Sterile Water for Injection or Sterile Water for Inhalation to final volume and mix well. Filter mixture into appropriate sterile containers. Package and label. Use: This preparation has been used to treat respiratory syncytial virus infection in hospitalized infants and young children. Packaging: Package in tight, light-resistant containers. Labeling: Keep out of reach of children. Discard after [time period]. Stability: Refer to the current edition of the U.S. Pharmacopeia for the appropriate beyond-use date for this compounded sterile preparation.1 Quality Control: Quality-control assessment can include weight/volume, physical observation, pH, specific gravity, osmolality, assay, color, clarity, particulate matter, and sterility.2,3 Discussion: Ribavirin for Inhalation Solution is commercially available as Virazole, which is a sterile, lyophilized powder to be reconstituted for aerosol administration. Each 100-mL glass vial contains 6 g of ribavirin; when reconstituted to 300 mL with Sterile Water for Injection or Sterile Water for Inhalation (no preservatives added), it will contain 20 mg per mL of solution with a pH of approximately 5.5. Ribavirin for Inhalation Solution contains no preservatives and is stable for up to 24 hours when stored under sterile conditions at room temperature.4 This preparation is compounded whenever a different concentration or a small quantity is requested for a specific patient to minimize wastage.

doi:10.22506/ti/2016/v23/i2/146687
Title:Sub-acute inhalation toxicity study of submicronic alpha-ketoglutarate respiratory formulation
Authors:R. AliS. SultanaS. SultanaA. KumarA. BhatnagarG. Mittal
Absract:Alpha Ketoglutaric Acid (AKG), one of two ketone derivatives of glutaric acid is an important biological compound that serves as a natural scavenger of ammonium ion, facilitating its conversion to amino acids and protein. AKG inhalation has potential therapeutic role against ammonia-induced structural and inflammatory changes in the lungs. In the present study sub-acute inhalation toxicity of a novel submicronic AKG respiratory formulation was evaluated in Sprague Dawley rats. Sub-acute inhalation toxicity study of novel AKG respiratory formulation at doses, 1, 3 and 5% was conducted as per Schedule-‘Y’ guidelines of ICMR, India. Hematological, serum biochemical and lung toxicity biomarkers in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid were determined. Histopathological analysis of lung tissues and other vital organs was carried out to observe any microscopic changes. Hematology, serum biochemistry and lung toxicity biomarkers in BAL fluid revealed no adverse effects of AKG inhalation except for a slight increase in levels of BAL fluid protein. At autopsy, no histopathological changes in major vital organs, including the lungs were observed. The safety evaluation data suggest that aerosols of submicronic AKG respiratory formulation are safe for inhalation and could be developed as a potential therapeutic option against lung injuries induced through chemical toxicants such as ammonia.

doi:10.1517/17425247.4.2.91
Title:Dry powder inhalation versus wet nebulisation delivery of antibiotics in cystic fibrosis patients
Authors:E.M. WestermanH.G.M. HeijermanH.W. Frijlink
Absract:Inhalation of antipseudomonal antibiotics is a cornerstone in treating cystic fibrosis patients. It has shown to be effective in slowing down the process of pulmonary deterioration and decreasing the incidence of infectious exacerbations. The focus is now on innovating drug delivery devices, sometimes combined with specific drug formulations, which allow for the administration of large doses in a short time frame and in a reproducible way. Adaptive aerosol delivery devices are promising, but do not have a distinct position as yet because of the lack of long-term data. The position of dry powder inhalation of antibiotics in cystic fibrosis treatment is still confined to pilot studies. Until more clinical data are available, the suboptimal, conventional jet nebulisers are the mainstay in antipseudomonal inhalation therapy in cystic fibrosis. © 2007 Informa UK.

doi:10.7497/j.issn.2095-3941.2014.01.004
Title:Inhalation treatment of lung cancer: the influence of composition, size and shape of nanocarriers on their lung accumulation and retention
Authors:O.B. GarbuzenkoG. MainelisO. TaratulaT. Minko
Absract:Objective: Various nanoparticles have been designed and tested in order to select optimal carriers for the inhalation delivery of anticancer drugs to the lungs. Methods: The following nanocarriers were studied: micelles, liposomes, mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs), poly propyleneimine (PPI) dendrimer-siRNA complexes nanoparticles, quantum dots (QDs), and poly (ethylene glycol) polymers. All particles were characterized using the following methods: dynamic light scattering, zeta potential, atomic force microscopy, in vitro cyto- and genotoxicity. In vivo organ distribution of all nanoparticles, retention in the lungs, and anticancer effects of liposomes loaded with doxorubicin were examined in nude mice after the pulmonary or intravenous delivery. Results: Significant differences in lung uptake were found after the inhalation delivery of lipid-based and non-lipid-based nanoparticles. The accumulation of liposomes and micelles in lungs remained relatively high even 24 h after inhalation when compared with MSNs, QDs, and PPI dendrimers. There were notable differences between nanoparticle accumulation in the lungs and other organs 1 and 3 h after inhalation or intravenous administrations, but 24 h after intravenous injection all nanoparticles were mainly accumulated in the liver, kidneys, and spleen. Inhalation delivery of doxorubicin by liposomes significantly enhanced its anticancer effect and prevented severe adverse side effects of the treatment in mice bearing the orthotopic model of lung cancer. Conclusion: The results of the study demonstrate that lipid-based nanocarriers had considerably higher accumulation and longer retention time in the lungs when compared with non-lipid-based carriers after the inhalation delivery. These particles are most suitable for effective inhalation treatment of lung cancer. Copyright © 2014 by Cancer Biology & Medicine.

doi:10.1517/17425247.4.6.595
Title:The nanoscale in pulmonary delivery. Part 1: Deposition, fate, toxicology and effects
Authors:P.G.A. RoguedaD. Traini
Absract:This two-part review explores the nanoscale in inhalation delivery. The first part covers the deposition, fate, toxicity and effects of nanoparticles delivered via inhalation. The second part analyses the potential of major inhalation delivery routes. Efficient particle deposition in the lung can be achieved with nanoparticles (50 - 100 nm). However, this particle range has hardly been exploited in a medical setting. Thus, formulation scientists have a rare opportunity to develop new concepts in inhalation delivery. The delivery of nanoparticles raises concern over increased toxicity, but also opens up the possibility for enhanced therapeutic effects and reduced dosage. Toxicity data available so far concerns mainly non-therapeutic molecules, and it remains a moot point as to whether these apply to drug molecules. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1016/S0168-3659(00)00362-X
Title:Influence of formulation excipients and physical characteristics of inhalation dry powders on their aerosolization performance
Authors:C. BosquillonC. LombryV. PréatR. Vanbever
Absract:The objective of this study was to determine the effects of formulation excipients and physical characteristics of inhalation particles on their in vitro aerosolization performance, and thereby to maximize their respirable fraction. Dry powders were produced by spray-drying using excipients that are FDA-approved for inhalation as lactose, materials that are endogenous to the lungs as albumin and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC); and/or protein stabilizers as trehalose or mannitol. Dry powders suitable for deep lung deposition, i.e. with an aerodynamic diameter of individual particles <3 μm, were prepared. They presented 0.04-0.25 g/cm3 bulk tap densities, 3-5 μm geometric particle sizes, up to 90% emitted doses and 50% respirable fractions in the Andersen cascade impactor using a Spinhaler™ inhaler device. The incorporation of lactose, albumin and DPPC in the formulation all improved the aerosolization properties, in contrast to trehalose and the mannitol which decreased powder flowability. The relative proportion of the excipients affected aerosol performance as well. The lower the bulk powder tap density, the higher the respirable fraction. Optimization of in vitro aerosolization properties of inhalation dry powders can be achieved by appropriately selecting composition and physical characteristics of the particles. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1002/jps.2600660912
Title:Powder inhalation aerosol studies I: Selection of a suitable drug entity for bronchial delivery of new drugs
Authors:Z.T. ChowhanA.A. Amaro
Absract:The objective of this study was to determine the effects of formulation excipients and physical characteristics of inhalation particles on their in vitro aerosolization performance, and thereby to maximize their respirable fraction. Dry powders were produced by spray-drying using excipients that are FDA-approved for inhalation as lactose, materials that are endogenous to the lungs as albumin and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC); and/or protein stabilizers as trehalose or mannitol. Dry powders suitable for deep lung deposition, i.e. with an aerodynamic diameter of individual particles <3 μm, were prepared. They presented 0.04-0.25 g/cm3 bulk tap densities, 3-5 μm geometric particle sizes, up to 90% emitted doses and 50% respirable fractions in the Andersen cascade impactor using a Spinhaler™ inhaler device. The incorporation of lactose, albumin and DPPC in the formulation all improved the aerosolization properties, in contrast to trehalose and the mannitol which decreased powder flowability. The relative proportion of the excipients affected aerosol performance as well. The lower the bulk powder tap density, the higher the respirable fraction. Optimization of in vitro aerosolization properties of inhalation dry powders can be achieved by appropriately selecting composition and physical characteristics of the particles. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1016/0031-6865(95)00005-T
Title:Dry-powder inhalers: Evaluation of testing methodology and effect of inhaler design
Authors:J. BroadheadS.K.E. RouanC.T. Rhodes
Absract:We have previously developed a spray dried formulation of a model protein (β-galactosidase) of a size suitable for evaluation in dry powder inhaler devices. In this study, we wished to evaluate the roles of various methods available for the laboratory testing of dry powders for inhalation (cascade impactor, twin impinger, aerodynamic time of flight and image analysis). Secondly we wished to compare different inhaler devices using formulations with and without a carrier. Both the cascade impactor and twin impinger were appropriate methods for the testing of dry powder inhalers, and gave comparable estimates of respirable fraction. Image analysis and aerodynamic time of flight were suitable methods for determining the particle size of the dry powders, although the former was considerably more time consuming than the latter. The four inhalers evaluated differed greatly in terms of in vitro deposition properties. The presence of a carrier significantly improved respirable fraction with the poorer inhalers, but was less critical to the performance of the more efficient devices.

doi:10.1080/15563650.2017.1376749
Title:DMTS is an effective treatment in both inhalation and injection models for cyanide poisoning using unanesthetized mice
Authors:S.M. DeLeonJ.D. DowneyD.M. HildenbergerM.O. RhoomesL. BookerG.A. RockwoodK.A. Basi
Absract:Context: Cyanide (CN) is a metabolic poison, halting ATP synthesis by inhibiting complex IV of the electron transport chain. If exposed at high enough concentrations, humans and most animals can die within minutes. Because time is a crucial factor in survival of CN poisoning, a rapidly bioavailable, nontoxic, easy to administer CN medical countermeasure could improve morbidity/mortality in a mass CN exposure scenario. The most likely route of exposure to CN is via inhalation. Objective: This study examined the efficacy of a new formulation for dimethyl trisulfide (DMTS), a countermeasure which has shown promise as a treatment for CN poisoning, using both inhalation and injection models of CN exposure. Methods: We developed a model of acute CN inhalation intoxication, using the highly toxic agent system from CH Technologies for nose-only exposure. Both continuous and discontinuous HCN exposure paradigms were implemented. For comparison, we also utilized a potassium cyanide (KCN) injection model. In all experiments, DMTS was administered as a cyanide countermeasure via intramuscular injection in unanesthetized mice. Results: We found DMTS administration to be highly protective against both subcutaneous KCN and HCN inhalation toxicity. In the KCN injection model, DMTS afforded protection against 3.73 times the LD50 dose of KCN. In our HCN inhalation exposure model, mice challenged with LC50 HCN doses for the duration of either 10- or 40-minute exposure paradigms demonstrated improved survival in the presence of DMTS treatment (87.5% and 90.0% survival, respectively). Animals in the DMTS treatment groups of both lethal exposure models similarly exhibited improvement in observed toxic signs. Conclusion: We show that a newly developed formulation of DMTS is efficacious within two lethal CN exposure mouse models (inhalation and injection) and is highly effective by intramuscular injection. Within these HCN studies, we demonstrate efficacy of DMTS in both continuous and discontinuous inhalation exposure models.

pui:29337079
Title:Beclomethasone/cyclodextrin inclusion complex for dry powder inhalation
Authors:J.M.C. Leite PintoH.M. Cabral Marques
Absract:Cyclodextrins can be used in order to suitably modify the biopharmaceutical properties of drugs. A complex of beclomethasone dipropionate/hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin was formed as shown by the apparent solubility constant, differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray spectroscopy. With a view to developing a suitable formulation for pulmonary delivery of the above complex, a comparative study of the drug/cyclodextrin complex, the physical mixture of the drug and the cyclodextrin and the drug alone was performed as the in vitro aerosol deposition of the emitted dose from an inhalation device: the Micro-haler dry powder inhaler using the twin impinger apparatus (European Pharmacopoeia). The results show a significant respirable fraction for both the complex and drug/hydroxypropyl-β- cyclodextrin mixtures used, which indicates the potential of the above formulation for pulmonary delivery. The results are in the following order: complex alone > micronized drug + cyclodextrin physical mixture >> micronized drug alone.

doi:10.1089/089426802760292672
Title:The role of particle properties in pharmaceutical powder inhalation formulations
Authors:N.Y.K. ChewH.-K. Chan
Absract:Pharmaceutical aerosol delivery is undergoing dramatic changes in both inhaler device and formulation aspects. There is a rapid move from the traditional propellant-driven metered dose inhalers to the high performance liquid atomizers and dry powder inhalers (DPIs). DPIs involving the dispersion of powders into aerosols by an inhaler device are particularly attractive as dry powders generally have greater chemical stability than liquids used in atomizers. Delivery of therapeutic proteins as dry powder aerosols is of high commerical interest. However, production and formulation of dry powders for inhalation can be difficult and challenging due to the potential physical instability of the powder. Dry powders consisting of micro- or nano-sized particles are inherently adhesive and cohesive, leading to highly variable dose accuracy and poor aerosol performance. Particle engineering via the use of appropriate pharmaceutical excipients and processing parameters can produce particles of optimal morphologies and surface properties which would enhance aerosol generation. Some of the key determinants for successful dispersion of pharmaceutical powders suitable for inhalation are reviewed with an emphasis on the practical significance.

pui:25295771
Title:A comparison of lung deposition patterns between different asthma inhalers
Authors:S.P. NewmanThielSmaldoneVaughn
Absract:Drugs for the treatment and prophylaxis of asthma are delivered to the lungs by inhalation and this is facilitated by the use of pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs), pMDIs with spacer devices and dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Lung deposition of drugs from pMDIs depends upon both the physicochemical nature of the aerosol formulation and the patient's inhalation technique, however, the majority of the dose from a pMDI is deposited in the oropharynx. Large volume spacer devices can reduce oropharyngeal deposition; however, lung deposition may be increased or decreased with a spacer in comparison with a pMDI, according to the design of the spacer, the aerosol formulation, the patient's inhalation technique and the extent to which the electrostatic charge on the spacer is controlled. Lung deposition of drug from DPIs also varies according to the design of the device. One DPI, Turbuhaler®, deposits twice as much drug in the lungs as a pMDI, has a lower intersubject variability of lung deposition and results in lower oropharyngeal deposition.

pui:18247668
Title:In vitro and in vivo deposition of drug particles inhaled from pressurized aerosol and dry powder inhaler
Authors:M. VidgrenA. KarkkainenP. KarjalainenJ. NuutinenP. Paronen
Absract:Disodium cromoglycate particles were labelled with a pure γ-radiator @sup_begin99m@sup_end Tc using a novel co-precipitation technique based on spray drying. Metered dose aerosols as well as a dry powder dosage form were prepared using these labelled drug particles. Fractional deposition of the drug particles. Fractional deposition of the drug particles was determined in vivo by means of gamma camera. Inhalation patterns of seven healthy volunteers were compared to deposition patterns evaluated in vitro using a modified cascade impactor. On average only 9 per cent of the aerosol dose deposited in a whole lung area and about 81 per cent in the upper airways of the volunteers. The in vitro results showed clearly greater deposition of the drug particles into the imitated bronchial and alveolar stages. The physiological factors of the human respiratory tract as well as the individual differences in the inhalation techniques seemed to have a significant influence to the deposition and aerodynamic behaviour of the inhaled drug particles. The in vitro results indicated, however, the similar differences between the two inhalation dosage forms as the in vivo evaluation did.

doi:10.1055/s-2007-980119
Title:Are there pulmonary vascular or respiratory effects of prostaglandin vehicles (ethanol, glycine buffer) after intravenous infusion or inhalation?
Authors:M. BundM. WinterhalterC. WeilbachS. Piepenbrock
Absract:Background: Infusion or inhalation of prostaglandins PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end is used to reduce vascular resistance. PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end are dissolved in ethanol and glycine buffer, respectively. Each vehicle may cause dose-dependent haemodynamic and respiratory side effects. This study was performed to examine the role of low-dose ethanol and glycine buffer as used for the infusion and inhalation of PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end. Methods: Two groups of pigs (ethanol and glycine group, n = 9 each) were anaesthetised and ventilated mechanically. Ethanol was given at 0.14 mg/kg/min by infusion and 0.12 mg/kg/min as aerosol, glycine buffer was infused at 3.8 μg/ kg/min and inhaled at 3.1 μg/kg/min, respectively. Haemodynamic and respiratory data were recorded before and after application. Results: Neither infusion nor inhalation of ethanol or glycine buffer caused significant changes in systemic and pulmonary haemodynamics, right heart function, oxygenation or ventilation. Conclusions: The effect of inhaled or intravenously infused PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end is not influenced by their preparations containing ethanol or glycine buffer. © Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2007.12.016
Title:Frequent mistakes in equivalence studies of generic inhalation products
Authors:B. BrashierS. SalviJ. Gogtay
Absract:Background: Infusion or inhalation of prostaglandins PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end is used to reduce vascular resistance. PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end are dissolved in ethanol and glycine buffer, respectively. Each vehicle may cause dose-dependent haemodynamic and respiratory side effects. This study was performed to examine the role of low-dose ethanol and glycine buffer as used for the infusion and inhalation of PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end. Methods: Two groups of pigs (ethanol and glycine group, n = 9 each) were anaesthetised and ventilated mechanically. Ethanol was given at 0.14 mg/kg/min by infusion and 0.12 mg/kg/min as aerosol, glycine buffer was infused at 3.8 μg/ kg/min and inhaled at 3.1 μg/kg/min, respectively. Haemodynamic and respiratory data were recorded before and after application. Results: Neither infusion nor inhalation of ethanol or glycine buffer caused significant changes in systemic and pulmonary haemodynamics, right heart function, oxygenation or ventilation. Conclusions: The effect of inhaled or intravenously infused PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end is not influenced by their preparations containing ethanol or glycine buffer. © Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart.

doi:10.1159/000111774
Title:Dry powder inhalers and the risk of error
Authors:C. Terzano
Absract:Background: Infusion or inhalation of prostaglandins PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end is used to reduce vascular resistance. PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end are dissolved in ethanol and glycine buffer, respectively. Each vehicle may cause dose-dependent haemodynamic and respiratory side effects. This study was performed to examine the role of low-dose ethanol and glycine buffer as used for the infusion and inhalation of PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end. Methods: Two groups of pigs (ethanol and glycine group, n = 9 each) were anaesthetised and ventilated mechanically. Ethanol was given at 0.14 mg/kg/min by infusion and 0.12 mg/kg/min as aerosol, glycine buffer was infused at 3.8 μg/ kg/min and inhaled at 3.1 μg/kg/min, respectively. Haemodynamic and respiratory data were recorded before and after application. Results: Neither infusion nor inhalation of ethanol or glycine buffer caused significant changes in systemic and pulmonary haemodynamics, right heart function, oxygenation or ventilation. Conclusions: The effect of inhaled or intravenously infused PGE@sub_begin1@sub_end and PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end is not influenced by their preparations containing ethanol or glycine buffer. © Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart.

doi:10.1517/17425247.5.8.909
Title:What is the role of particle morphology in pharmaceutical powder aerosols?
Authors:H.-K. Chan
Absract:Background: The aerosol performance of a powder for inhalation drug delivery is controlled by a number of physicochemical properties of the formulation, including particle size, density and morphology. Objective: The role of particle morphology in powder inhalers will be reviewed. Methods: Original research publications in the literature about the contribution of particle morphology to the aerosol performance of pharmaceutical powders have been selected, including both the lactose carriers and the drugs. Results/conclusion: Existing data showed that morphology of both the lactose carrier and drug particle can affect the aerosol performance of powders significantly, a factor which should be taken into consideration during the development of dry powder inhalation products. © 2008 Informa UK Ltd.

pui:25217554
Title:New trends in inhalation therapy
Authors:R. Pageau
Absract:Background: The aerosol performance of a powder for inhalation drug delivery is controlled by a number of physicochemical properties of the formulation, including particle size, density and morphology. Objective: The role of particle morphology in powder inhalers will be reviewed. Methods: Original research publications in the literature about the contribution of particle morphology to the aerosol performance of pharmaceutical powders have been selected, including both the lactose carriers and the drugs. Results/conclusion: Existing data showed that morphology of both the lactose carrier and drug particle can affect the aerosol performance of powders significantly, a factor which should be taken into consideration during the development of dry powder inhalation products. © 2008 Informa UK Ltd.

pui:23001720
Title:Cystic fibrosis inhalation therapy: Stability of a combined salbutamol/colistin solution
Authors:G.W. RobertsN.R. BadcockA.O. Jarvinen
Absract:Background: The aerosol performance of a powder for inhalation drug delivery is controlled by a number of physicochemical properties of the formulation, including particle size, density and morphology. Objective: The role of particle morphology in powder inhalers will be reviewed. Methods: Original research publications in the literature about the contribution of particle morphology to the aerosol performance of pharmaceutical powders have been selected, including both the lactose carriers and the drugs. Results/conclusion: Existing data showed that morphology of both the lactose carrier and drug particle can affect the aerosol performance of powders significantly, a factor which should be taken into consideration during the development of dry powder inhalation products. © 2008 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11050233
Title:Characterization and formulation of isoniazid for high-dose dry powder inhalation
Authors:I. SibumP. HagedoornH.W. FrijlinkF. Grasmeijer
Absract:Tuberculosis is a major health problem and remains one of the main causes of mortality. In recent years, there has been an increased interest in the pulmonary delivery of antibiotics to treat tuberculosis. Isoniazid is one of these antibiotics. In this study, we aimed to characterize isoniazid and formulate it into a dry powder for pulmonary administration with little or no excipient, and for use in the disposable Twincer® inhaler. Isoniazid was jet milled and spray dried with and without the excipient l-leucine. Physiochemical characterization showed that isoniazid has a low Tg of −3.99 ± 0.18C and starts to sublimate around 80C. Milling isoniazid with and without excipients did not result in a suitable formulation, as it resulted in a low and highly variable fine particle fraction. Spray drying pure isoniazid resulted in particles too large for pulmonary administration. The addition of 5% l-leucine resulted in a fraction <5 µm = 89.61% ± 1.77% from spray drying, which dispersed well from the Twincer®. However, storage stability was poor at higher relative humidity, which likely results from dissolution-crystallization. Therefore, follow up research is needed to further optimize this spray dried formulation.

pui:6074512
Title:Comparison of tyloxapol with physiologic saline as inhalation carrier solution
Authors:D. FevrierH. Bachofen
Absract:Tuberculosis is a major health problem and remains one of the main causes of mortality. In recent years, there has been an increased interest in the pulmonary delivery of antibiotics to treat tuberculosis. Isoniazid is one of these antibiotics. In this study, we aimed to characterize isoniazid and formulate it into a dry powder for pulmonary administration with little or no excipient, and for use in the disposable Twincer® inhaler. Isoniazid was jet milled and spray dried with and without the excipient l-leucine. Physiochemical characterization showed that isoniazid has a low Tg of −3.99 ± 0.18C and starts to sublimate around 80C. Milling isoniazid with and without excipients did not result in a suitable formulation, as it resulted in a low and highly variable fine particle fraction. Spray drying pure isoniazid resulted in particles too large for pulmonary administration. The addition of 5% l-leucine resulted in a fraction <5 µm = 89.61% ± 1.77% from spray drying, which dispersed well from the Twincer®. However, storage stability was poor at higher relative humidity, which likely results from dissolution-crystallization. Therefore, follow up research is needed to further optimize this spray dried formulation.

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2020.3185
Title:In vitro fine particle dose of drug formulation used in asthma & COPD
Authors:L. SlatorD. Von HollenL.E.A. Hardaker
Absract:Valved holding Chambers (VHCs) are used with pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) to counter issues patients have in coordinating pMDI actuation and inhalation. The fine particle dose (FPD <4.7ug) of aerosol from the pMDI & VHC should be similar to the FPD from the pMDI. We reviewed in vitro test results of FPD from the VHC (OptiChamber Diamond; OCD) when used with 7 drugs commonly used for the treatment of asthma and COPD. The 7 pMDI drugs (Table 1) included 2 inhaled corticosteroids (Flovent and QVAR), 1 anticholinergic (Atrovent) and 4 bronchodilator formulations of salbutamol sulphate (SALB; Ventolin Evohaler sold in the UK, Ventolin HFA, Proventil and ProAir HFA sold in the USA). Two pMDI's were used for each drug except Flovent, QVAR and Atrovent (1 pMDI), all were tested in duplicate. Six new, unwashed VHCs were used for all drugs except QVAR (6 washed VHCs). The FPD of aerosol emitted from either pMDI alone or pMDI with OCD VHC was assessed using a next generation impactor operated at 30 L/min, 10 pMDI actuations were used for each run. Table 1 . View inline Mean FPD (ug ± standard deviation) FPD from the pMDI with VHC was equivalent or greater than pMDI alone. Although the 4 bronchodilator drug formulations delivered the same drug (SALB) the FPD differed by up to a factor of 2.

doi:10.4155/tde.13.70
Title:Electrostatics in pharmaceutical aerosols for inhalation
Authors:J. WongH.-K. ChanP.C.L. Kwok
Absract:Electrostatics continues to play an important role in pharmaceutical aerosols for inhalation. Despite its ubiquitous nature, the charging process is complex and not well understood. Nonetheless, significant advances in the past few years continue to improve understanding and lead to better control of electrostatics. The purpose of this critical review is to present an overview of the literature, with an emphasis on how electrostatic charge can be useful in improving pulmonary drug delivery. © 2013 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1208/s12248-009-9125-0
Title:Development of an in vivo ovine dry powder inhalation model for the evaluation of conventional and controlled release microparticles
Authors:R.O. SalamaL. LaddH.-K. ChanD. TrainiP.M. Young
Absract:Electrostatics continues to play an important role in pharmaceutical aerosols for inhalation. Despite its ubiquitous nature, the charging process is complex and not well understood. Nonetheless, significant advances in the past few years continue to improve understanding and lead to better control of electrostatics. The purpose of this critical review is to present an overview of the literature, with an emphasis on how electrostatic charge can be useful in improving pulmonary drug delivery. © 2013 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.06.041
Title:Influence of fine lactose and magnesium stearate on low dose dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:R. GuchardiM. FreiE. JohnJ.S. Kaerger
Absract:The behaviour of dry powder blends for inhalation, depending on the amount of fine lactose particles smaller than 10 μm and the presence of magnesium stearate (MgSt), was studied in this work. A laser light diffraction method was developed to determine accurately size and volume fraction of these fine lactose particles in coarse carrier lactose (x@sub_begin50@sub_end ∼ 220 μm). A linear relationship between measured volume fraction undersize at 10 μm Q@sub_begin3@sub_end(10 μm) and added fine lactose could be established. Aerodynamic particle size distribution analysis of lactose showed that the fine lactose was attached to the coarse particles. In the presence of MgSt this interaction was increased. Consequently, the number of free active sites on the carrier surface was reduced and the investigated drug (formoterol fumarate dihydrate) was more effectively delivered. Addition of fine lactose and MgSt improved the aerodynamic performance the drug, as determined by resulting fine particle fraction, by 3% (for each 1% of added fine lactose) and 10%, respectively. Stability tests indicated that added MgSt was the most relevant of the studied parameter to achieve a stable aerodynamic performance. Its ability to protect the moisture uptake into the system was considered as rational for this effect. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13081213
Title:A quality by design framework for capsule-based dry powder inhalers
Authors:L. DingA.D. BrunaughS. StegemannS.V. JermainM.J. HerpinJ. KalafatH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:Capsule-based dry powder inhalers (cDPIs) are widely utilized in the delivery of pharmaceutical powders to the lungs. In these systems, the fundamental nature of the interactions between the drug/formulation powder, the capsules, the inhaler device, and the patient must be fully elucidated in order to develop robust manufacturing procedures and provide reproducible lung deposition of the drug payload. Though many commercially available DPIs utilize a capsule-based dose metering system, an in-depth analysis of the critical factors associated with the use of the capsule component has not yet been performed. This review is intended to provide information on critical factors to be considered for the application of a quality by design (QbD) approach for cDPI development. The quality target product profile (QTPP) defines the critical quality attributes (CQAs) which need to be understood to define the critical material attributes (CMA) and critical process parameters (CPP) for cDPI development as well as manufacturing and control.

pui:622905466
Title:Optimizing particle engineering methods for inhalation drug products
Authors:J. Markarian
Absract:Capsule-based dry powder inhalers (cDPIs) are widely utilized in the delivery of pharmaceutical powders to the lungs. In these systems, the fundamental nature of the interactions between the drug/formulation powder, the capsules, the inhaler device, and the patient must be fully elucidated in order to develop robust manufacturing procedures and provide reproducible lung deposition of the drug payload. Though many commercially available DPIs utilize a capsule-based dose metering system, an in-depth analysis of the critical factors associated with the use of the capsule component has not yet been performed. This review is intended to provide information on critical factors to be considered for the application of a quality by design (QbD) approach for cDPI development. The quality target product profile (QTPP) defines the critical quality attributes (CQAs) which need to be understood to define the critical material attributes (CMA) and critical process parameters (CPP) for cDPI development as well as manufacturing and control.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2011.09.089
Title:Propellant-based inhalers for the non-invasive delivery of genes via oral inhalation
Authors:D.S. ContiB. BharatwajD. BrewerS.R.P. Da Rocha
Absract:In this work we describe the development of a propellant-based, portable oral inhalation platform for the pulmonary delivery of genes. A core-shell strategy is utilized to efficiently disperse cationic-polymer-DNA nanoparticles in hydrofluoroalkane propellants, and to generate aerosols from the corresponding pressurized metered-dose inhaler formulations (pMDIs) that have excellent aerosol characteristics, suitable for deep lung deposition. The engineered polyplexes and core-shell structures were fully characterized, and their ability to transfect model lung alveolar epithelium cells in vitro was demonstrated. We also show that the propellant does not affect the biological activity of the plasmid DNA, and that the core-shell formulations have no in vitro cytotoxicity. The relevance of this work stems from the fact that pMDIs are the least expensive and most widely used portable oral inhalation devices, and are thus promising platforms for targeting genes to the lungs for the treatment of medically relevant diseases including asthma, cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and lung cancer. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:25279252
Title:Determination of the minimum dose of lactose drug carrier that can be sensed during inhalation
Authors:M.A. HighamA.M. ShararaR.P. MageeP.W. Ind
Absract:Lactose is commonly used as a carrier for inhaled drugs. Twenty healthy volunteers without respiratory symptoms inhaled seven different doses of lactose and a placebo (empty) dose through the four place Diskhaler® device, in order to determine the lowest dose that could be reliably sensed. The minimum dose for which all subjects reported taste or feel sensations was 10 mg. This has implications regarding the amount of carrier used in future drug delivery systems.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2010.04.017
Title:Influence of carrier particle size, carrier ratio and addition of fine ternary particles on the dry powder inhalation performance of insulin-loaded PLGA microcapsules
Authors:H. HamishehkarJ. EmamiA.R. NajafabadiK. GilaniM. MinaiyanH. MahdaviA. Nokhodchi
Absract:The effects of carrier particle size, carrier ratio and addition of fine ternary agents on dry powder inhalation performance of insulin-loaded PLGA microcapsules were investigated. The use of mannitol with larger particle size in the lower carrier/microcapsules ratio led to higher deposition profiles of the drug. The fine spray dried mannitol and spray dried leucine as the ternary agents both decreased the deposition and dispersibility of microcapsules. It was concluded that addition of ternary component does not always improve aerosolization properties of DPI formulations. Carrier particle size, its flowability and carrier-drug ratio were shown to play an important role in DPI formulations. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1248/cpb.c15-00615
Title:Inhalation properties and stability of nebulized naked siRNA solution for pulmonary therapy
Authors:K. TaharaW. HashimotoH. Takeuchi
Absract:The use of naked unmodified small interfering RNA (N-siRNA) without vector has previously been investigated as a pulmonary therapy. However, little is known regarding stabilities and aerodynamic particle sizes of N-siRNA-containing droplets; nebulizers have not yet been optimized for N-siRNA solutions. Thus, in this study, we investigated the feasibility of inhaled N-siRNA solutions for pulmonary therapy using nebulization. Various nebulizers and N-siRNA concentrations were assessed in terms of siRNA integrity after nebulization, and inhalation properties including aerodynamic particle size were examined. In comparison with ultrasonic-, air-jet-, and vibrating-mesh nebulizers, N-siRNA integrity was not affected by nebulization. Thus, in further experiments, performances of N-siRNA aerosols with different nebulizers and N-siRNA concentrations were evaluated and screened using an aerodynamic particle sizer (APS) which employed the time-of-flight principle or a cascade impactor. Mean mass aerodynamic diameters of N-siRNA-containing droplets from vibrating-mesh nebulizers tended to decrease with increasing N-siRNA concentrations, reflecting the influence of N-siRNA solutions on surface tension, as indicated by contact angles. These data indicate the utility of APS instruments for investigating the nebulized characteristics of expensive drugs including siRNAs and may facilitate the development of N-siRNA inhalation formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2008.02.015
Title:Modified release of beclometasone dipropionate from chitosan-based spray-dried respirable powders
Authors:T.P. LearoydJ.L. BurrowsE. FrenchP.C. Seville
Absract:Dry powders for inhalation were prepared by spray drying a 30% v/v aqueous ethanol formulation containing beclometasone dipropionate (BDP), lactose, leucine and chitosan (low, medium or high molecular weight (MW), or combinations thereof). Following physical characterisation of the powders, the aerosolisation and dissolution properties of the powders were investigated using Multi-Stage Liquid Impinger and USP II dissolution apparatus, respectively. The powders were highly dispersible, with emitted doses in excess of 90% of loaded powder aerosolised from a Spinhaler dry powder inhaler. The fine particle fraction (FPF) was observed to decrease, whereas the time for 100% drug release increased, with increasing chitosan MW. For example, the low MW formulation exhibited an FPF of 64% and a 100% dissolution time of 2 h, whereas the high MW formulation demonstrated an FPF of 54% and a dissolution time of 12 h. These powders would be anticipated to deposit predominately in the lower regions of the lung following inhalation, and then undergo delayed rather than instantaneous drug release, offering the potential to reduce dosing frequency and improve patient compliance. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1691/ph.2013.3013
Title:Physicochemical compatibility of nebulizable drug admixtures containing colistimethate and tobramycin
Authors:A. WollstadtI. KramerW. Kamin
Absract:Inhalation therapy with nebulizable antibiotic drugs is a mainstay in treating Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections in cystic fibrosis patients. The combination of tobramycin and colistin was found to be superior to monotherapy in killing P. aeruginosa in biofilms. The simultaneous inhalation of tobramycin and colistin might be an option to increase the compliance of patients. The objective of this in-vitro study was to determine whether admixtures of inhalation solutions containing colistin methanesulfonate (CMS) and tobramycin are physicochemically compatible. Physical compatibility was determined by measuring pH and osmolality. Chemical compatibility was determined by testing the antibiotic activity of the mixtures by the pharmacopoeial microbiological assay and comparing the results to those of standard solutions. Samples were analyzed immediately after mixing and after 24 h. Values of pH and osmolality remained unchanged and in physiologically acceptable ranges. Neither for colistin methanesulfonate (CMS) nor for tobramycin losses of antibiotic potency were registered at any time. Admixtures of nebulizer solutions containing CMS and tobramycin were shown to be physicochemically compatible. Further investigations are needed to determine whether drug delivery is affected by mixing the nebulizer solutions to ensure that simultaneous inhalation is recommendable.

pui:35478648
Title:The electrospray and its application to targeted drug inhalation.
Authors:A. Gomez
Absract:This review explains the fundamentals of electrostatic spray (electrospray) atomization, with emphasis on operation in the so called cone-jet mode, which produces droplets with a very narrow size distribution. Since the control of droplet size is key to maximizing distal lung deposition, the electrospray should be well-suited to targeted drug inhalation. Electrospray droplets are a few micrometers in diameter, but they originate from a much larger nozzle, which allows nebulization of suspensions without clogging. Also discussed are: the physical principles of the break-up of the liquid ligament; droplet dispersion by Coulombic forces; and the most important scaling law linking the droplet size to liquid flow rate and liquid physical properties. The effects of the most critical of those properties may result in some restrictions on drug formulation. Droplets produced by electrospray are electrically charged, so to prevent electrostatic image forces from causing upper respiratory tract deposition. The charge is neutralized by generating a corona discharge of opposite polarity. Briefly discussed are the main differences between the laboratory systems (with which the electrospray has been quantitatively characterized during research in the past 10 years) and commercial electrospray inhalers under development at BattellePharma. Some remarkable miniaturization has incorporated liquid pump, power supply, breath activation, and dose counter into a palm-size portable device. The maximum flow rates dispersed from these devices are in the range of 8-16 microL/s, which makes them suitable for practical drug inhalation therapy. Fabrication is economically competitive with inexpensive nebulizers. Dramatic improvements in respirable dose efficiency (up to 78% by comparison with commercial metered-dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers) should ensure the commercialization of this promising technology for targeted drug inhalation.

doi:10.1080/02652040802466535
Title:Delivery of rSLPI in a liposomal carrier for inhalation provides protection against cathepsin L degradation
Authors:A.M. GibbonsN.G. McElvaneyC.C. TaggartS.-A. Cryan
Absract:Secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) is an endogenous serine protease inhibitor that protects the lungs from excessive tissue damage caused by leukocyte proteases released during inflammation. Recombinant SLPI (rSLPI) has shown potential as a treatment for inflammatory lung conditions. To date, its clinical application has been limited by rapid enzymatic cleavage by cathepsins and rapid clearance from the lungs after inhalation. In this study, rSLPI was encapsulated in 1,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3-[Phospho-L-Serine] : Cholesterol (DOPS : Chol) liposomes for inhalation. Incubation of rSLPI with cathepsin L leads to complete loss of activity while encapsulation of rSLPI in DOPS : Chol liposomes retained 92.6 of its activity after challenge with cathepsin L. rSLPI-loaded liposomes were aerosolized efficiently using a standard nebulizer with a minimal loss of activity and stability. This formulation was biocompatible and encapsulation did not appear to diminish access to intracellular sites of action in in vitro cell culture studies. Liposome encapsulation of rSLPI therefore improves stability and potentially reduces the level and frequency of dosing required for therapeutic effect after inhalation.

doi:10.3132/pcrj.2007.00034
Title:Valved holding chambers (VHCs) for use with pressurised metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs): A review of causes of inconsistent medication delivery
Authors:J.P. MitchellM.W. Nagel
Absract:Background: Valved holding chambers (VHCs) are prescribed with pressurised metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) to improve medication delivery for the treatment of respiratory diseases because they reduce the need for the patient to co-ordinate inhaler actuation with the onset of inhalation. Although mechanically robust and clinically effective if properly designed and pre-conditioned, there are several causes of inconsistent medication delivery if this is not the case. These include: electrostatic charge; incorrect operation of inhalation and exhalation valves; and the fit of the facemask - where present - to the face. In addition, behavioral factors, such as not following patient instructions for use and maintenance, and imperfect breathing technique, amplify overall variability. Aids such as valve movement indicators that provide patient feedback are helpful in order to minimise these factors. Methods: This article reviews recent literature concerning the causes of inconsistent drug delivery and the improvements that have been made by manufacturers to VHC devices, and assesses the clinical implications. The attributes of a well-designed VHC are summarised. © 2007 General Practice Airways Group. All rights reserved.

pui:22055832
Title:Bioavailability of leuprolide acetate following nasal and inhalation delivery to rats and healthy humans
Authors:A. AdjeiD. SundbergJ. MillerA. Chun
Absract:Systemic delivery of leuprolide acetate, a luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist, was compared after inhalation (i.h.) and intranasal (i.n.) administration. The i.n. bioavailability in rats was significantly increased by α-cyclodextrin (CD), EDTA, and solution volume. Intraanimal variability was 30-60%, and absorption ranged from 8 to 46% compared to i.v. controls. Studies in healthy human males were conducted with leuprolide acetate i.n. by spray, or inhalation aerosol (i.h.), and subcutaneous (s.c.) and intravenous (i.v.) injection. The s.c. injection was 94% bioavailable compared with i.v. The i.n. bioavailability averaged 2.4%, with significant subject-to-subject variability. Plasma peak concentrations (C(max)) with 1- and 3-mg dosages ranged between 0.24-1.6 and 0.10-11.0 ng/ml, respectively. The low human bioavailability may be due to physical loss of drug down the oral cavity and differences between human and rat nasal mucosa. Inhalation delivery gave a slightly lower intersubject variability. Mean C(max) with a 1-mg dose of solution aerosol was 0.97 ng/ml, compared with 4.4 and 11.4 ng/ml for suspension aerosols given at 1- and 2-mg bolus dosages, respectively. The mean bioavailability of the suspension aerosols (28% relative to s.c. administration) was fourfold greater than that of the solution aerosol (6.6%), suggesting that LHRH analogues may be delivered systemically via the lungs as aerosol dispersions.

pui:358412187
Title:Optimized preparation of dry powder inhalation of Rehmannia glutinosa oligosaccharides by central composite design and response surface method
Authors:L. DingL. LiuD. Xu
Absract:Objective: To optimize the formulation of dry powder inhalation of Rehmannia glutinosa oligosaccharides (RGOS-DPI) extracted from traditional Chinese medicinal herbs. Method: RGOS-DPI was prepared by spray drying technique. Dependent variables such as yield, moisture absorption rate, emptying rate and mean diameter of micropowder were transformed into desirabilities mathematically by Hassan's method. Overall desirability was calculated from the geometric mean of the four desirabilities of each formulation. The effects of influence factors such as the inlet temperature, the contents of mannitol in the total amount of adjuvant and solution density were investigated using central composite design and response surface method. The data of overall desirability were analyzed using multi-linear equation and second-order polynomial equation for selecting the optimal conditions for DPI preparation. Result: The method of second-order polynomial equation was superior to multi-linear equation method in view of the correlation coefficients. Under the optimal conditions, the yield, moisture absorption rate, emptying rate and mean diameter of the RGOS-DPI were 78.60%, 5.93%, 94.20% and 2.537 μm, respectively. Conclusion: The central composite design can be used to optimize preparation. The optimized process for RGOS-DPI preparation is stable and feasible. The diameter of micropowder is suitable which can meet the demands of pulmonary delivery.

pui:30770409
Title:Metered dose inhalers and spacer devices
Authors:C. Terzano
Absract:Easy to carry, highly effective and extremely safe, allowing accurate, consistent dose delivery, metered dose inhalers are the inhalation devices doctors and patients choose most readily the world over. Clinical response, however, may be affected by the inhalation technique used and the precise formulation in the canisters. The purpose of this review is to consider metered dose inhalers, add on devices and training issues related to the proper coordination of drug delivery with inhalation, and to report on new technology and recent studies into non ozone depleting propellants, in compliance with the Montreal protocol.

pui:352088272
Title:The Inhalation Ad Hoc Advisory Panel for the USP performance tests of inhalation dosage forms
Authors:V.A. GrayA.J. HickeyP. BalmerN.M. DaviesC. DunbarT.S. FosterB.L. OlssonM. SakagamiV.P. ShahM.J. SmurthwaiteJ.M. VeranthK. Zaidi
Absract:The US Pharmacopeia (USP) contains standards for tests, procedures, and acceptance criteria for inhalation dosage forms that are administered orally and intranasally. Product quality and performance tests are concerned primarily with the assessment of drug delivery and deposition in the respiratory tract. This Stimuli article evaluates the scientific rationale, if any, for in vitro dissolution tests for inhalation dosage forms. Studies that determine the profiles and kinetics of dissolution for inhaled therapeutics have been performed, but a literature review could not find compelling evidence suggesting that such dissolution testing is kinettcally and/or clinically crucial for currently approved inhalation drug products. Even so, because of the possible development of novel inhalation products with modified or controlled dissolution and release, a USP standard for assessing dissolution of inhalation dosage forms may be considered in the future if scientifically warranted. © 2008 The United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2006.12.007
Title:Ethanol enhanced in vivo gene delivery with non-ionic polymeric micelles inhalation
Authors:Y.-C. ChaoS.-F. ChangS.-C. LuT.-C. HwangW.-H. HsiehJ. Liaw
Absract:Modifications of both carriers and host barriers have been investigated for efficient inhalation gene delivery to lung. Here we used a biocompatible, non-ionic poly(ethyleneoxide)-poly(propyleneoxide)-poly(ethyleneoxide) (PEO-PPO-PEO) polymeric micelles (PM) as a carrier and combined it with ethanol to enhance membrane penetration of delivered DNA. The inhalation delivery with six 100 μg doses of pCMV-Lac Z with PM co-formulated with 10%-40% ethanol to nude mice in 2 days at 8 h interval was performed. The β-galatosidase (β-Gal) activity was assessed using chlorophenol red-β-d galactopyranoside (CPRG) and X-gal staining for quantitative and qualitative analysis in tissues. The results showed that β-Gal activity was significantly increased by 38% in lung around bronchioles when inhalation with PM and 10% ethanol was given. The 10% ethanol also increased the intracellular apparent permeability by 42% in stomach and by 141% in intestine at 48 h after the first dosage of delivery. Also delivery of DNA encoding a functional human cystic fibrosis transmembrane protein (CFTR) using the same inhalation delivery method co-formulated with 10% ethanol, an increased expression of CFTR in lung was detected by immunostaining. We concluded that 10% ethanol co-formulated with the PM system could enhance inhaled gene delivery to airway and gastrointestinal (GI) tract. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:619222684
Title:Key considerations for non-clinical safety assessment of inhaled biopharmaceuticals
Authors:S. MooreK. HarperS. Marshall
Absract:Modifications of both carriers and host barriers have been investigated for efficient inhalation gene delivery to lung. Here we used a biocompatible, non-ionic poly(ethyleneoxide)-poly(propyleneoxide)-poly(ethyleneoxide) (PEO-PPO-PEO) polymeric micelles (PM) as a carrier and combined it with ethanol to enhance membrane penetration of delivered DNA. The inhalation delivery with six 100 μg doses of pCMV-Lac Z with PM co-formulated with 10%-40% ethanol to nude mice in 2 days at 8 h interval was performed. The β-galatosidase (β-Gal) activity was assessed using chlorophenol red-β-d galactopyranoside (CPRG) and X-gal staining for quantitative and qualitative analysis in tissues. The results showed that β-Gal activity was significantly increased by 38% in lung around bronchioles when inhalation with PM and 10% ethanol was given. The 10% ethanol also increased the intracellular apparent permeability by 42% in stomach and by 141% in intestine at 48 h after the first dosage of delivery. Also delivery of DNA encoding a functional human cystic fibrosis transmembrane protein (CFTR) using the same inhalation delivery method co-formulated with 10% ethanol, an increased expression of CFTR in lung was detected by immunostaining. We concluded that 10% ethanol co-formulated with the PM system could enhance inhaled gene delivery to airway and gastrointestinal (GI) tract. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.12.048
Title:Dynamics of aerosol size during inhalation: Hygroscopic growth of commercial nebulizer formulations
Authors:A.E. HaddrellJ.F. DaviesR.E.H. MilesJ.P. ReidL.A. DaileyD. Murnane
Absract:The size of aerosol particles prior to, and during, inhalation influences the site of deposition within the lung. As such, a detailed understanding of the hygroscopic growth of an aerosol during inhalation is necessary to accurately model the deposited dose. In the first part of this study, it is demonstrated that the aerosol produced by a nebulizer, depending on the airflows rates, may experience a (predictable) wide range of relative humidity prior to inhalation and undergo dramatic changes in both size and solute concentration. A series of sensitive single aerosol analysis techniques are then used to make measurements of the relative humidity dependent thermodynamic equilibrium properties of aerosol generated from four common nebulizer formulations. Measurements are also reported of the kinetics of mass transport during the evaporation or condensation of water from the aerosol. Combined, these measurements allow accurate prediction of the temporal response of the aerosol size prior to and during inhalation. Specifically, we compare aerosol composed of pure saline (150 mM sodium chloride solution in ultrapure water) with two commercially available nebulizer products containing relatively low compound doses: Breath @sup_begin®@sup_end, consisting of a simple salbutamol sulfate solution (5 mg/2.5 mL; 1.7 mM) in saline, and Flixotide@sup_begin®@sup_end Nebules, consisting of a more complex stabilized fluticasone propionate suspension (0.25 mg/mL; 0.5 mM in saline. A mimic of the commercial product Tobi@sup_begin©@sup_end (60 mg/mL tobramycin and 2.25 mg/mL NaCl, pH 5.5-6.5) is also studied, which was prepared in house. In all cases, the presence of the pharmaceutical was shown to have a profound effect on the magnitude, and in some cases the rate, of the mass flux of water to and from the aerosol as compared to saline. These findings provide physical chemical evidence supporting observations from human inhalation studies, and suggest that using the growth dynamics of a pure saline aerosol in a lung inhalation model to represent nebulizer formulations may not be representative of the actual behavior of the aerosolized drug solutions. © 2014 The Authors.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2015.1040416
Title:Development of a design space and predictive statistical model for capsule filling of low-fill-weight inhalation products
Authors:E. FaulhammerM. LlusaP.R. WahlA. PaudelS. LawrenceS. BiserniV. CalzolariJ.G. Khinast
Absract:The objectives of this study were to develop a predictive statistical model for low-fill-weight capsule filling of inhalation products with dosator nozzles via the quality by design (QbD) approach and based on that to create refined models that include quadratic terms for significant parameters. Various controllable process parameters and uncontrolled material attributes of 12 powders were initially screened using a linear model with partial least square (PLS) regression to determine their effect on the critical quality attributes (CQA; fill weight and weight variability). After identifying critical material attributes (CMAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) that influenced the CQA, model refinement was performed to study if interactions or quadratic terms influence the model. Based on the assessment of the effects of the CPPs and CMAs on fill weight and weight variability for low-fill-weight inhalation products, we developed an excellent linear predictive model for fill weight (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96 for powders with good flow properties and R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.94, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.93 for cohesive powders) and a model that provides a good approximation of the fill weight variability for each powder group. We validated the model, established a design space for the performance of different types of inhalation grade lactose on low-fill weight capsule filling and successfully used the CMAs and CPPs to predict fill weight of powders that were not included in the development set.

pui:352397533
Title:Preparing for the national conversion of CFC propelled inhalers to HFA propelled inhalers
Authors:H. Lee
Absract:The objectives of this study were to develop a predictive statistical model for low-fill-weight capsule filling of inhalation products with dosator nozzles via the quality by design (QbD) approach and based on that to create refined models that include quadratic terms for significant parameters. Various controllable process parameters and uncontrolled material attributes of 12 powders were initially screened using a linear model with partial least square (PLS) regression to determine their effect on the critical quality attributes (CQA; fill weight and weight variability). After identifying critical material attributes (CMAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) that influenced the CQA, model refinement was performed to study if interactions or quadratic terms influence the model. Based on the assessment of the effects of the CPPs and CMAs on fill weight and weight variability for low-fill-weight inhalation products, we developed an excellent linear predictive model for fill weight (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96 for powders with good flow properties and R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.94, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.93 for cohesive powders) and a model that provides a good approximation of the fill weight variability for each powder group. We validated the model, established a design space for the performance of different types of inhalation grade lactose on low-fill weight capsule filling and successfully used the CMAs and CPPs to predict fill weight of powders that were not included in the development set.

pui:22232063
Title:Tolerability of two surfactants in beclomethasone inhalation aerosol formulations in patients with asthma
Authors:M. SilvastiK. KohtamakiL. LehtonenM. VidgrenW. Wenz
Absract:The objectives of this study were to develop a predictive statistical model for low-fill-weight capsule filling of inhalation products with dosator nozzles via the quality by design (QbD) approach and based on that to create refined models that include quadratic terms for significant parameters. Various controllable process parameters and uncontrolled material attributes of 12 powders were initially screened using a linear model with partial least square (PLS) regression to determine their effect on the critical quality attributes (CQA; fill weight and weight variability). After identifying critical material attributes (CMAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) that influenced the CQA, model refinement was performed to study if interactions or quadratic terms influence the model. Based on the assessment of the effects of the CPPs and CMAs on fill weight and weight variability for low-fill-weight inhalation products, we developed an excellent linear predictive model for fill weight (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96 for powders with good flow properties and R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.94, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.93 for cohesive powders) and a model that provides a good approximation of the fill weight variability for each powder group. We validated the model, established a design space for the performance of different types of inhalation grade lactose on low-fill weight capsule filling and successfully used the CMAs and CPPs to predict fill weight of powders that were not included in the development set.

doi:10.1002/jps.2600630620
Title:Development and evaluation of an inhalation aerosol of nitroglycerin
Authors:A.M. ContractorJ.M. SynderH.P. FletcherR.F. Shangraw
Absract:The objectives of this study were to develop a predictive statistical model for low-fill-weight capsule filling of inhalation products with dosator nozzles via the quality by design (QbD) approach and based on that to create refined models that include quadratic terms for significant parameters. Various controllable process parameters and uncontrolled material attributes of 12 powders were initially screened using a linear model with partial least square (PLS) regression to determine their effect on the critical quality attributes (CQA; fill weight and weight variability). After identifying critical material attributes (CMAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) that influenced the CQA, model refinement was performed to study if interactions or quadratic terms influence the model. Based on the assessment of the effects of the CPPs and CMAs on fill weight and weight variability for low-fill-weight inhalation products, we developed an excellent linear predictive model for fill weight (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96 for powders with good flow properties and R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.94, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.93 for cohesive powders) and a model that provides a good approximation of the fill weight variability for each powder group. We validated the model, established a design space for the performance of different types of inhalation grade lactose on low-fill weight capsule filling and successfully used the CMAs and CPPs to predict fill weight of powders that were not included in the development set.

pui:29491469
Title:Simultaneous determination of lactose and sodium cromoglycate in a dry powder inhalation formulation
Authors:H.M. Cabral MarquesH. OrthP.C. Schmidt
Absract:The objectives of this study were to develop a predictive statistical model for low-fill-weight capsule filling of inhalation products with dosator nozzles via the quality by design (QbD) approach and based on that to create refined models that include quadratic terms for significant parameters. Various controllable process parameters and uncontrolled material attributes of 12 powders were initially screened using a linear model with partial least square (PLS) regression to determine their effect on the critical quality attributes (CQA; fill weight and weight variability). After identifying critical material attributes (CMAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) that influenced the CQA, model refinement was performed to study if interactions or quadratic terms influence the model. Based on the assessment of the effects of the CPPs and CMAs on fill weight and weight variability for low-fill-weight inhalation products, we developed an excellent linear predictive model for fill weight (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96 for powders with good flow properties and R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.94, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.93 for cohesive powders) and a model that provides a good approximation of the fill weight variability for each powder group. We validated the model, established a design space for the performance of different types of inhalation grade lactose on low-fill weight capsule filling and successfully used the CMAs and CPPs to predict fill weight of powders that were not included in the development set.

pui:23288938
Title:Some practical experiences from the inhalation therapy in patients with chronic pulmonary obstruction diseases
Authors:J. RuzickaL. KissA. KarpatiovaM. TvarozekL. JakabJ. Eisner
Absract:The objectives of this study were to develop a predictive statistical model for low-fill-weight capsule filling of inhalation products with dosator nozzles via the quality by design (QbD) approach and based on that to create refined models that include quadratic terms for significant parameters. Various controllable process parameters and uncontrolled material attributes of 12 powders were initially screened using a linear model with partial least square (PLS) regression to determine their effect on the critical quality attributes (CQA; fill weight and weight variability). After identifying critical material attributes (CMAs) and critical process parameters (CPPs) that influenced the CQA, model refinement was performed to study if interactions or quadratic terms influence the model. Based on the assessment of the effects of the CPPs and CMAs on fill weight and weight variability for low-fill-weight inhalation products, we developed an excellent linear predictive model for fill weight (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.96 for powders with good flow properties and R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.94, Q@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.93 for cohesive powders) and a model that provides a good approximation of the fill weight variability for each powder group. We validated the model, established a design space for the performance of different types of inhalation grade lactose on low-fill weight capsule filling and successfully used the CMAs and CPPs to predict fill weight of powders that were not included in the development set.

pui:2007883100
Title:Comparison of nebulization characteristics of different formulations for ambroxol hydrochloride inhalation solution
Authors:Z. WangN.-Y. WeiY. ZhouB.-M. Ning
Absract:Objective: To compare the nebulization characteristics of three different formulations for ambroxol hydrochloride inhalation solution with the same strength by using NGI and breathe simulator and to investigate the influence of formulation composition on in vitro performance. Methods: The physical properties (viscosity, surface tension, the pH and osmotic pressure) of the three formulations of ambroxol hydrochloride inhalation solution were investigated. The nebulization characteristics (aerodynamic particle size distribution, delivery rate and the total delivery) by NGI and breath simulator with different formulations of ambroxol hydrochloride inhalation solution were investigated as well. Results: The pH value and the osmotic pressure between formulations 2 and 3 were significantly different; the surface tension between formulations 2 and 3 did not show significant difference; the same nebulization characteristics were obtained for formulations 2 and 3. pH value, the osmotic pressure and the surface tension of formulation 1 were significantly different compared with that of formulation 2 and 3. The fine particle dose (FPD) of formulation 1 was 0.42 mg, significantly higher than that of formulations 2 and 3 (0.38 mg and 0.39 mg, respectively). The delivery rate and total delivery amount of formulation 1 were significantly higher than that of formulations 2 and 3. Conclusion: The formulation compositions of ambroxol hydrochloride inhalation solution have significant influence on its nebulization characteristics. When the surface tension of the formulation decreased, the FPD, the delivery rate and the total amount increased, as well as delivery efficiency. However, the safety of benzalamine or equivalent preservatives should be well considered during the formulation development.

pui:30093318
Title:Inhalation therapy using a streptococcal preparation (OK-432) against bronchioloalveolar carcinoma of the lung
Authors:T. YanoY. IchinoseH. YokoyamaY. FukuyamaK. SugioK. Sugimachi
Absract:Objective: In order to inhibit the occurrence of airborne metastasis of bronchioloalveolar cell carcinoma (BAC), we tried to activate alveolar macrophages by the inhalation of aerosolized OK-432, which is a heat and penicillin-treated lyophilized preparation of the Su strain of Streptococcus pyogenes. Methods and Results: Alveolar macrophages were obtained from resected specimens of lung cancer patients and cultured for 24 h in the presence of various concentrations of OK-432 (0.001-1 KE/ml). The cytotoxic activity against a lung cancer cell line was augmented in a dose dependent manner and reached a plateau level at 0.1 KE/ml of OK-432. Furthermore, the alveolar macrophages produced various cytokines, ie, IL-1, TNF-α, and IL-6 after 72 h cultivation with 0.1 KE/ml of OK-432. Based on the in vitro experiments, six patients with intrapulmonary metastatic BAC were therefore treated by the inhalation of aerosolized OK-432. All 6 patients inhaled aerosolized OK-432 (0.1 KE/ml) twice a day for 5 days. The inhalation therapy regimen was repeated either weekly or monthly unless the tumor markedly progressed. No adverse events were observed in any patients. Either an augmentation of antitumor cytotoxicity or TNF-α production by the alveolar macrophages was observed in the two of three patients examined. Conclusion: OK-432 inhalation therapy was found to be safe and thus warrants further investigation to determine its clinical effectiveness for BAC.

doi:10.1046/j.1440-1681.2003.03813.x
Title:Disposition kinetics of ketotifen from liposomal dry powder for inhalation in rat lung
Authors:M. JoshiA. Misra
Absract:1. The aim of the present study was to understand the benefit of liposomal dry powder for inhalation (LDPI) of ketotifen fumarate (KF) over plain drug dry powder for inhalation as a pulmonary targetted drug-delivery system. 2. The KF liposomes, composed of egg phosphatidyl choline and cholesterol, were prepared by the lipid film hydration technique. The liposomal dispersion was freeze dried and formulated to a dry powder for inhalation. Values of 89.0-65.3% drug entrapment of freeze-dried liposomes were estimated in prepared batches. 3. Rehydrated KF liposomes formed by the hydration of LDPI or the plain KF solution was delivered to rat lungs by intratracheal instillation. Simultaneous monitoring of drug levels in the bronchoalveolar lavage and lung tissue enabled assessment of pulmonary drug disposition. 4. Cumulative drug levels in lung tissue after intratracheal administration revealed that with liposomes targetting factors were between 1.36 and 1.54. The maximal drug concentration in lung homogenate for LDPI was 42.0 μg compared with 73.6 μg for plain drug solution. 5. Similarly, the time to reach maximum drug concentration in the lung homogenate for liposomal dry powder was 9-12 h compared with 3 h for plain drug. 6. Hence, the use of LDPI of KF was found to provide desired drug levels in the lung for a long time and thereby increased pulmonary targetting. 7. This is expected to enhance the therapeutic index of the drug and probably reduce the dose administered and the cost of therapy.

doi:10.1016/j.medengphy.2011.12.025
Title:Developing an efficient and reliable dry powder inhaler for pulmonary drug delivery - A review for multidisciplinary researchers
Authors:N. IslamM.J. Cleary
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is the focus of much research and development because of its great potential to produce maximum therapeutic benefit. Among the available options the dry powder inhaler (DPI) is the preferred device for the treatment of an increasingly diverse number of diseases. However, as drug delivery from a DPI involves a complicated set of physical processes and the integration of drug formulations, device design and patient usage, the engineering development of this medical technology is proving to be a great challenge. Currently there is large range of devices that are either available on the market or under development, however, none exhibit superior clinical efficacy. A major concern is the inter- and intra-patient variability of the drug dosage delivered to the deep lungs. The extent of variability depends on the drug formulation, the device design and the patient's inhalation profile. This article reviews recent advances in DPI technology and presents the key factors which motivate and constrain the successful engineering of a universal, patient-independent DPI that is capable of efficient, reliable and repeatable drug delivery. A strong emphasis is placed on the physical processes of drug powder aerosolisation, deagglomeration, and dispersion and on the engineering of formulations and inhalers that can optimise these processes. © 2012 IPEM.

pui:2002839517
Title:Inhalation drug delivery: The impact of particle size reduction
Authors:A. LopesR. BarrosS. Silva
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is the focus of much research and development because of its great potential to produce maximum therapeutic benefit. Among the available options the dry powder inhaler (DPI) is the preferred device for the treatment of an increasingly diverse number of diseases. However, as drug delivery from a DPI involves a complicated set of physical processes and the integration of drug formulations, device design and patient usage, the engineering development of this medical technology is proving to be a great challenge. Currently there is large range of devices that are either available on the market or under development, however, none exhibit superior clinical efficacy. A major concern is the inter- and intra-patient variability of the drug dosage delivered to the deep lungs. The extent of variability depends on the drug formulation, the device design and the patient's inhalation profile. This article reviews recent advances in DPI technology and presents the key factors which motivate and constrain the successful engineering of a universal, patient-independent DPI that is capable of efficient, reliable and repeatable drug delivery. A strong emphasis is placed on the physical processes of drug powder aerosolisation, deagglomeration, and dispersion and on the engineering of formulations and inhalers that can optimise these processes. © 2012 IPEM.

pui:361255703
Title:Hovione: What is special about inhalation APIs?
Authors:C. Vozone
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is the focus of much research and development because of its great potential to produce maximum therapeutic benefit. Among the available options the dry powder inhaler (DPI) is the preferred device for the treatment of an increasingly diverse number of diseases. However, as drug delivery from a DPI involves a complicated set of physical processes and the integration of drug formulations, device design and patient usage, the engineering development of this medical technology is proving to be a great challenge. Currently there is large range of devices that are either available on the market or under development, however, none exhibit superior clinical efficacy. A major concern is the inter- and intra-patient variability of the drug dosage delivered to the deep lungs. The extent of variability depends on the drug formulation, the device design and the patient's inhalation profile. This article reviews recent advances in DPI technology and presents the key factors which motivate and constrain the successful engineering of a universal, patient-independent DPI that is capable of efficient, reliable and repeatable drug delivery. A strong emphasis is placed on the physical processes of drug powder aerosolisation, deagglomeration, and dispersion and on the engineering of formulations and inhalers that can optimise these processes. © 2012 IPEM.

pui:351227848
Title:Clearing the air
Authors:P. SmithR. Crowley
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is the focus of much research and development because of its great potential to produce maximum therapeutic benefit. Among the available options the dry powder inhaler (DPI) is the preferred device for the treatment of an increasingly diverse number of diseases. However, as drug delivery from a DPI involves a complicated set of physical processes and the integration of drug formulations, device design and patient usage, the engineering development of this medical technology is proving to be a great challenge. Currently there is large range of devices that are either available on the market or under development, however, none exhibit superior clinical efficacy. A major concern is the inter- and intra-patient variability of the drug dosage delivered to the deep lungs. The extent of variability depends on the drug formulation, the device design and the patient's inhalation profile. This article reviews recent advances in DPI technology and presents the key factors which motivate and constrain the successful engineering of a universal, patient-independent DPI that is capable of efficient, reliable and repeatable drug delivery. A strong emphasis is placed on the physical processes of drug powder aerosolisation, deagglomeration, and dispersion and on the engineering of formulations and inhalers that can optimise these processes. © 2012 IPEM.

doi:10.1155/2018/2732017
Title:Inhaled Therapy in Respiratory Disease: The Complex Interplay of Pulmonary Kinetic Processes
Authors:J.M. BorghardtC. KloftA. Sharma
Absract:The inhalation route is frequently used to administer drugs for the management of respiratory diseases such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Compared with other routes of administration, inhalation offers a number of advantages in the treatment of these diseases. For example, via inhalation, a drug is directly delivered to the target organ, conferring high pulmonary drug concentrations and low systemic drug concentrations. Therefore, drug inhalation is typically associated with high pulmonary efficacy and minimal systemic side effects. The lung, as a target, represents an organ with a complex structure and multiple pulmonary-specific pharmacokinetic processes, including (1) drug particle/droplet deposition; (2) pulmonary drug dissolution; (3) mucociliary and macrophage clearance; (4) absorption to lung tissue; (5) pulmonary tissue retention and tissue metabolism; and (6) absorptive drug clearance to the systemic perfusion. In this review, we describe these pharmacokinetic processes and explain how they may be influenced by drug-, formulation-and device-, and patient-related factors. Furthermore, we highlight the complex interplay between these processes and describe, using the examples of inhaled albuterol, fluticasone propionate, budesonide, and olodaterol, how various sequential or parallel pulmonary processes should be considered in order to comprehend the pulmonary fate of inhaled drugs.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666151008124451
Title:Controlled release inhalable polymeric microspheres for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:A. SaigalW.K. NgR.B.H. TanS.Y. Chan
Absract:Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a chronic ailment of the lungs, exhibiting elevated arterial pressure and vascular resistance; with a mean arterial pressure above 25 mmHg at rest and above 30 mmHg during exercise. It is associated with poor prognosis, and its prevalence is estimated to be 15 cases per one million. The current treatment options for PAH are discussed with the prostanoid class of drugs being the most effective. The latter drugs act by dilating systemic and pulmonary arterial vascular beds and, with sustained long-term usage, altering pulmonary remodelling. They are administered as IV infusions or inhalation solutions. Despite their clinical effectiveness, prostanoids have short half-lives requiring frequent administration of 6-9 times daily and thus suffer from poor compliance. Controlled release inhalation delivery systems for treatment of PAH, ranging from liposomes, biodegradable nano and microparticles, formation of co-precipitates and complexation with cyclodextrins, are explored. Arising from these formulation strategies, we developed novel polymeric microspheres for inhalation to reduce dosing frequency and improve medication compliance. These microspheres are designed with release modifiers, to reside in the lung which is the site of drug action for a longer duration so as to release the drug slowly and consistently over a prolonged period. This could lead to the development of the first commercially available controlled release inhalation product.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_21
Title:Development and approval of inhaled respiratory drugs: A US regulatory science perspective
Authors:G.J.P. SinghG. Poochikian
Absract:This chapter focuses on the regulatory science aspects of the postdiscovery development and approval of the inhaled respiratory drug products intended for local action. It provides a brief treatise of the CMC, in vitro and in vivo evaluations for development and approval of inhalation aerosols in the US. In addition, it includes a brief discussion on scientific considerations related to potential extendedrelease inhalation drug products. Regulatory paradigms for approval of generic inhalation drug products are also discussed. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1097/00000539-199912000-00054
Title:IV halothane anesthesia [1] (multiple letters)
Authors:H.F. CascorbiP.D. MonganJ.L. FontanaJ. Musser
Absract:This chapter focuses on the regulatory science aspects of the postdiscovery development and approval of the inhaled respiratory drug products intended for local action. It provides a brief treatise of the CMC, in vitro and in vivo evaluations for development and approval of inhalation aerosols in the US. In addition, it includes a brief discussion on scientific considerations related to potential extendedrelease inhalation drug products. Regulatory paradigms for approval of generic inhalation drug products are also discussed. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1016/S0954-6111(97)90100-1
Title:Is total particle dose more important than particle distribution?
Authors:H. Chrystyn
Absract:This chapter focuses on the regulatory science aspects of the postdiscovery development and approval of the inhaled respiratory drug products intended for local action. It provides a brief treatise of the CMC, in vitro and in vivo evaluations for development and approval of inhalation aerosols in the US. In addition, it includes a brief discussion on scientific considerations related to potential extendedrelease inhalation drug products. Regulatory paradigms for approval of generic inhalation drug products are also discussed. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119666
Title:Quantification of surface composition and surface structure of inhalation powders using TOF-SIMS
Authors:M. NicholasM. JosefsonM. FranssonJ. WilbsC. RoosC. BoissierK. Thalberg
Absract:A multivariate TOF-SIMS methodology has been developed and applied to quantify surface composition and chemical distribution for dry powder blends. Surface properties are often critical to the behavior of powder formulations, especially in the case of dry powders for inhalation, as surface properties directly affect inter-particulate forces and, hence, the dispersibility of the formulation. The mass spectrum at each pixel was fit to a linear combination of reference spectra obtained by non-negatively constrained alternating least squares. From the pixel compositions, average surface coverage and a range of other image features were calculated. Two kinds of systems have been examined: 1) binary blends of lactose particles and coating agents, and 2) blends of different inhalation drugs with carrier lactose. For both kinds of systems, detailed insight into the surface composition and structure could be derived. For the former study, TOF-SIMS results were compared with a complementary surface analysis technique, XPS.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2007.06.006
Title:Inhalable microparticles containing large payload of anti-tuberculosis drugs
Authors:P. MuttilJ. KaurK. KumarA.B. YadavR. SharmaA. Misra
Absract:Microparticles containing large payloads of two anti-tuberculosis (TB) drugs were prepared and evaluated for suitability as a dry powder inhalation targeting alveolar macrophages. A solution containing one part each of isoniazid and rifabutin, plus two parts poly(lactic acid) (L-PLA) was spray-dried. Drug content and in vitro release were assayed by HPLC, and DSC was used to elucidate release behaviour. Particle size was measured by laser scattering and aerosol characteristics by cascade impaction using a Lovelace impactor. Microparticles were administered to mice using an in-house inhalation apparatus or by intra-tracheal instillation. Drugs in solution were administered orally and by intra-cardiac injection. Flow cytometry and HPLC were used to investigate the specificity and magnitude of targeting macrophages. Microparticles having drug content ∼50% (w/w), particle size ∼5 μm and satisfactory aerosol characteristics (median mass aerodynamic diameter, MMAD = 3.57 μm; geometric standard deviation, GSD = 1.41 μm; fine particle fraction, FPF@sub_begin<4.6μm@sub_end = 78.91 ± 8.4%) were obtained in yields of >60%. About 70% of the payload was released in vitro in 10 days. Microparticles targeted macrophages and not epithelial cells on inhalation. Drug concentrations in macrophages were ∼20 times higher when microparticles were inhaled rather than drug solutions administered. Microparticles were thus deemed suitable for enhanced targeted drug delivery to lung macrophages. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jclinane.2004.01.004
Title:Prophylactic nebulized lidocaine attenuates hyperdynamic response to abrupt mask inhalation of isoflurane in adults
Authors:T. ShigaZ. WajimaT. InoueR. Ogawa
Absract:Study objectives To examine whether prophylactic, atomized lidocaine blunts hyperdynamic responses and catecholamine release after an abrupt increase in volatile anesthetic administration. Design Prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Setting University-affiliated hospital. Patients 22 ASA physical status I adult patients scheduled for elective surgery. Interventions Patients were randomly assigned to the saline or lidocaine group, and abruptly inhaled 5% isoflurane (4.3 MAC) after inhalation of ultrasonically nebulized lidocaine or saline via endoscopy mask. An esophageal Doppler probe was inserted via the mask to assess global hemodynamic performance. Measurements and main results Immediately after abrupt inhalation of isoflurane, heart rate (HR) in the saline group increased significantly and mean arterial pressure (MAP) remained unchanged, whereas HR in the lidocaine group remained unchanged, and MAP decreased significantly. No significant differences were noted between the saline and lidocaine groups in aortic blood flow, stroke volume in the aorta, total systemic vascular resistance in the aortic circuit, or aortic diameter. The plasma norepinephrine concentration increased in both groups after isoflurane inhalation, significantly so in the saline group but not in the lidocaine group. Conclusion Prophylactic ultrasonically nebulized lidocaine (2 mg/kg) obtunds the hyperdynamic responses to abrupt inhalation of 5% isoflurane but does not completely block catecholamine release. © 2004 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.10.019
Title:Minimal amounts of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine improve aerosol performance of spray-dried temocillin powders for inhalation
Authors:B. CuvelierP. EloyC. Loira-PastorizaB. UcakarA.A. SanogoC. Dupont-GillainR. Vanbever
Absract:Administration of antibiotics by inhalation can greatly improve drug targeting to the site of respiratory infections. In addition, dry powder inhalers are particularly convenient for the patients. The purposes of this study were to demonstrate the interest of pulmonary temocillin delivery to reach high temocillin concentrations locally in the lungs as well as to prepare a spray-dried temocillin powder for inhalation using a minimal amount of generally recognized as safe excipients. Intratracheal instillation of a temocillin solution allowed to reach higher and more sustained drug concentrations in the lungs than intravenous injection in mice, although a 10-fold lower temocillin dose was delivered intratracheally than systemically. A spray-dried powder of pure temocillin presented a fine particle fraction of 9% of the dose loaded in the inhaler. However, the incorporation of 0.5% to 20% of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) in the powder increased the fine particle fraction 4- to 5-fold. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction revealed that DPPC concentrated at the particle surface with its aliphatic chains laterally packed. The minimal amount of DPPC needed to improve the aerosol performance of temocillin supports the use of this excipient in the formulation of cohesive antibiotic powders for inhalation.

doi:10.2174/1381612823666161116114732
Title:Liposomes for pulmonary drug delivery: The role of formulation and inhalation device design
Authors:A. Elhissi
Absract:Liposomes are established drug carriers for inhalation owing to their safety and ability to provide controlled drug release in the lung. These carriers can entrap a wide range of therapeutic molecules for delivery in large volumes to the peripheral airways using medical nebulizers. Pressurized metered inhalers (pMDIs), soft mist inhalers (SMIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs) can deliver relatively small quantities of medication to the lung when compared to medical nebulizers which can deliver large volumes using simple liposome preparation techniques. Unfortunately, the shearing provided during nebulization to convert the aqueous liposome dispersions into “respirable” aerosol droplets may exert physical stress on liposome bilayers, causing losses of the originally entrapped drug. The development of successful liposome carriers for inhalation depends on two main factors which are formulation composition and nebulizer design, with the aim of reducing the detrimental effect of shearing on liposome stability and maximizing the deposition of vesicles in the ‘deep lung’. A number of nebulizable liposome formulations have reached clinical trials. For example, Arikace® (liposomal amikacin) and Pulmaquin® (liposomal ciprofloxacin) are antibacterial formulations currently in advanced stages of development. In this review, the role of liposome formulation and inhalation device design on the suitability of liposomes for eliciting controlled drug release in the lung was evaluated. Moreover, the factors contributing to the success of Arikace® in clinical trials were appraised.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:Aerosol delivery of inhaled vancomycin during mechanical ventilation using I-vent system, a unique small volume, breath enhanced Jet nebulizer
Authors:R. ToddywalaV. ShuklaA. HandeG. Smaldone
Absract:Objectives: The present study describes the delivery of a Vancomycin formulation using i-VENT system to reduce aerosol losses during mechanical ventilation. Methods: The breath enhanced i-VENT nebulizer system, powered by wall gases at 50 PSIG and 3.5 LPM, can generate aerosol continuously or can be inhalation triggered using a unique electronic circuit. The device was connected to the inhalation tubing near the ventilator. The amount of drug delivered (n=3) to an in vitro lung model was quantified using a commercial ventilator for a short duty cycle (SDC) (15 bpm; Vt 0.46L; 50 LPM; I:E 1:6; PEEP 5 cm H@sub_begin2@sub_endO) and a long duty cycle (LDC) (20 bpm; Vt 0.65L; 40 LPM; I:E 1:2; PEEP 5 cm H@sub_begin2@sub_endO). The nebulizer was charged with 6mL of a Vancomycin formulation (60mg/mL). Inhaled Mass(IM), Exhaled Mass(EM) and residual in the nebulizer were determined using HPLC. Results: SDC CONTINUOUS(mg): IM - 58.28 ± 2.00; EM - 63.40 ± 3.52; Nebulizer ± 117.79 ± 3.15 SDC INHALATION TRIGGERED(mg): IM - 104.66 ± 3.41; EM - 29.00 ± 0.89; Nebulizer - 109.11 ± 5.48 LDC CONTINUOUS(mg): IM - 102.04 ± 5.49; EM ± 34.73 ± 3.02; Nebulizer - 135.90 ± 25.95 LDC INHALATION TRIGGERED(mg): IM - 126.21 ± 5.23; EM - 17.22 ± 0.87; Nebulizer - 101.58 ± 17.22 Conclusions: The i-Vent delivered a clinically relevant dose under all conditions. As expected, inhalation triggering resulted in a significantly higher dose of drug compared to the continuous mode.

doi:10.1007/s11095-010-0215-6
Title:Inhalation performance of physically mixed dry powders evaluated with a simple simulator for human inspiratory flow patterns
Authors:D. HiraT. OkudaD. KitoK. IshizekiT. OkadaH. Okamoto
Absract:Purpose: To construct a simple simulator reproducing human inspiratory flow patterns and use it to evaluate the inhalation performance of active ingredient particle-carrier particle systems (physically mixed dry powders). Methods: Inspiratory flow patterns were collected and analyzed using a flow recorder. The simulator was constructed using an airtight container, a valve, and a connecting tube. Several of the patterns reproduced by the simulator were compared with those recorded. In addition, the influence of inspiratory flow on the inhalation performance of physically mixed dry powders composed of salbutamol sulfate (SS) and coarse lactose monohydrate was investigated using a twin-stage liquid impinger (TSLI) equipped with the simulator. Results: Human inspiratory flow patterns could be characterized by three parameters: inspiratory flow volume (area under the flow rate-time curve (AUC)), flow increase rate (FIR), and peak flow rate (PFR). The patterns could be reproduced using the simulator. Testing with the simulator in vitro revealed that PFR, but not FIR or AUC, greatly affected the inhalation performance of physically mixed dry powders. Conclusions: The simulator is simple to construct and can schematically reproduce human inspiratory flow patterns. Testing with a TSLI and the simulator is useful to evaluate dry powder formulations for clinical application. © 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2009.10.010
Title:Spray drying of siRNA-containing PLGA nanoparticles intended for inhalation
Authors:D.M.K. JensenD. CunM.J. MaltesenS. FrokjaerH.M. NielsenC. Foged
Absract:Local delivery of small interfering RNA (siRNA) to the lungs constitutes a promising new area in drug delivery. The present study evaluated parameters of importance for spray drying of siRNA-loaded poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) into nanocomposite microparticles intended for inhalation. The spray drying process was optimised using a statistical design of experiment and by evaluating powder characteristics upon systematic variation of the formulation parameters. Concentration, carbohydrate excipient (trehalose, lactose and mannitol) and the ratio of NP to excipient were varied to monitor the effects on moisture content, particle morphology, particle size and powder yield. The identified optimum conditions were applied for spray drying of siRNA-loaded nanocomposite microparticles, resulting in a product with a low water content (0.78% w/w) and an aerodynamic particle diameter considered suitable for inhalation. The use of mannitol in the formulation allowed a significantly lower moisture content than trehalose and lactose. The inclusion of 50% (w/w) or higher amounts of NPs resulted in a marked change in the surface morphology of the spray-dried particles. Importantly, the integrity and biological activity of the siRNA were preserved during the spray drying process. In conclusion, the present results show that spray drying is a suitable technique for producing nanocomposite microparticles comprising siRNA-containing PLGA NPs for potential use in inhalation therapy. © 2009 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Impact of different capsules for dry powder inhalation on efficacy and aerodynamic performance of salbutamol inhalation formulation
Authors:J. KalafatS. PowaleJ. BhatD. AlmeidaA. Solanki
Absract:In this work, four capsule shell formulations (HPMC + gelling agent, HPMC + gelling agent + plasticizer, HPMC without gelling agent, and Gelatin) were filled with salbutamol dry powder inhalation (200 mcg) and lactose carrier. An accelerated stability program was performed to compare certain efficacy and aerodynamic parameters important for inhalation delivery. The filled capsules were analyzed upon puncturing by a single pin dry powder inhalation device at the initial state and then after exposure to 40°C and 75% RH at 1 month, 2 month, 3 month and 6 month intervals. The seven parameters under evaluation were: assay, fine particle fraction (FPF), drug retention, powder retention, single maximum impurity, total impurities and loss on drying (LOD). The data yielded valuable results indicating there are differences in performance of certain parameters depending on the specific capsule formulation. The HPMC capsules + gelling agent + plasticizer performed the best in the accelerated stability study, while the Gelatin capsule performance was the poorest in FPF and drug retention. These results indicate product development scientists must make an astute selection of capsule types when developing salbutamol. Besides the raw material composition used to manufacture the capsule shells and the powder contained within them, the moisture content of the empty capsule shells can influence key testing results. The water available in the shells can be absorbed by moisture sensitive fills, which can directly impact the puncturing from the device and other measurable parameters from this study.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.08.002
Title:The influence of amino acids on aztreonam spray-dried powders for inhalation
Authors:X.-F. YangY. XuD.-S. QuH.-Y. Li
Absract:The dry powder inhalation of antibiotics for the treatment of lung infections has attracted drastically increasing attention as it offers rapid local therapy at lower doses and minimal side effects. In this study, aztreonam (AZT) was used as the model antibiotic and spray-dried to prepare powders for inhalation. Amino acids of glycine (GLY), histidine (HIS) and leucine (LEU) were used as excipients to modify the spray-dried particles. It was demonstrated that the GLY-AZT spray-dried powders formed huge agglomerates with the size of 144.51 μm, which made it very difficult to be delivered to the lungs (FPF: 0.29% w/w only). In comparison with the AZT spray-dried powders, HIS-modified spray-dried powders showed increased compressibility, indicating larger distance and less cohesion between particles; while the LEU-modified spray-dried particles showed a hollow structure with significantly decreased densities. The fine particle fraction for HIS- and LEU-modified powders was 51.4% w/w and 61.7% w/w, respectively, and both were significantly increased (one-way ANOVA, Duncan's test, P < 0.05) compared to that of AZT spray-dried powders (45.4% w/w), showing a great potential to be applied in clinic.

doi:10.52711/0974-360X.2021.00761
Title:Validation of novel analytical rp-hplc method for determination of formoterol fumarate and budesonide in inhalation suspension pharmaceutical dosage form
Authors:R.K. KotakC.V. PandyaA.C. Pandya
Absract:Formoterol Fumarate and Budesonide inhalation suspension is prescribed for treatment of Asthmatic patient. Formoterol Fumarate is anti-asthmatic drug (Bronchodilator) and Budesonide is Anti Inflammatory Drug (Glucocortico steroid) drug. A bronchodilator is a substance that dilates the bronchi and bronchioles, decreasing resistance in the respiratory airway and increasing airflow to the lungs while Anti Inflammatory drug is used for the treatment of inflammation occurred on respiratory tract. The present study aimed to Validate HPLC method for combined determination of Assay of Formoterol Fumarate and Budesonide Analytes. This study covers Precision, Limit of Detection, Limit of Quantification, Linearity, Accuracy, Robustness, Ruggedness, Solution stability and Specificity. The chromatographic method uses a reversed phase column Hypersil ODS 125mm ×4.0mm x 5μm). The mobile phase was prepared by mixing Acetonitrile: Phosphate buffer (35:65, %v/v) at flow rate 1.0ml/min with Ultraviolet and Diode array detector at wavelength 215nm, column oven adjusted to 40°C and with injection volume 50μL. The method Found Precise, Accurate, Linear, Rugged, Robust and Sensitive. The method showed a successful application for determination of Formoterol Fumarate and Budesonide in Inhalation suspension pharmaceutical formulation.

doi:10.3109/02652048.2013.764937
Title:Development, characterisation and pharmacoscintigraphic evaluation of nano-fluticasone propionate dry powder inhalation as potential antidote against inhaled toxic gases
Authors:R. AliG. MittalR. AliM. KumarR. Kishan KharF.J. AhmadA. Bhatnagar
Absract:Acute lung injuries caused due to inhalation of toxic irritant gases such as ammonia, chlorine, hot smoke and burning plastic fumes predominantly affect the airways, causing tracheitis, bronchitis, and other inflammatory responses. The purpose was to develop and characterise nanoparticle based fluticasone propionate (FP) DPI formulation and assess its in vitro and in vivo pulmonary deposition using pharmacoscintigraphy. FP nanoparticles were prepared by nanoprecipitation method. Optimisation was carried out with the help of Box-Behnken statistical design. Nanoparticles were characterised with the help of SEM, FT-IR, DSC and XRD. Anderson cascade impaction showed that nano-FP exhibited significantly higher respirable fraction of 60.3 ± 2.41 as compared to 16.4 ± 0.66 for micronised form. Ventilation lung scintigraphy in human volunteers confirmed significant increase in drug delivery till alveolar region with nano-FP in comparison to micronised drug. Results indicate that the developed formulation may have a potential prophylactic/therapeutic role against toxic, irritant gas inhalation. © 2013 Informa UK Ltd All rights reserved: reproduction in whole or part not permitted.

pui:14222166
Title:Pretreatment of exercise-induced asthma with sequential inhalations of fenoterol as aerosol and as powder (first of two parts)
Authors:A. BundgaardA. Schmidt
Absract:Fifteen adult asthmatics participated in a controlled open randomized study to compare the efficacy on exercise-induced asthma of pretreatment with 1 mg fenoterol administered as inhalation powder and from a pressurized aerosol. Both types of treatment were inhalations of 5 single doses of 0.2 mg fenoterol over a period of 10 minutes. A run of 6 minutes was carried out on a treadmill in a climate chamber 30 minutes after the beginning of the pretreatment, at the same time of day on three days. After pretreatment with the pressurized aerosol a fall was seen in peak expiratory flow of 28% (± 5%, SEM) and after pretreatment with inhalation powder the fall was 18% (± 4%). This is a statistically significant differrence (p <0.01).

pui:604254729
Title:Pulmonary delivery of antimicrobial peptides
Authors:U. ElofssonA. FurebyP. Gerde
Absract:Anna Fureby, PhD, Group Manager & Senior Scientist, Life Science, and Ulla Elofsson, PhD, Senior Scientist, both of SP Technical Research Institute of Sweden, and Per Gerde, PhD, Chief Scientific Officer, Inhalation Sciences Sweden, discuss the serious problem of antibiotic resistance and the potential role of antimicrobial peptides in the treatment of resistant bacterial strains. For pulmonary infections, optimising the formulation and delivery method is a crucial factor for success.

doi:10.1023/A:1015114821387
Title:Content uniformity and dose uniformity: Current approaches, statistical analyses, and presentation of an alternative approach, with special reference to oral inhalation and nasal drug products
Authors:R.L. WilliamsW.P. AdamsG. PoochikianW.W. Hauck
Absract:This article reviews current and proposed approaches to content uniformity testing. In addition, the article proposes an approach that allows regulatory agencies and compendia to clearly state allowable consumer risk. Further, the article suggests that producers be allowed to control producer risk through selection of numbers of units and testing tiers. The approach facilitates risk communication to practitioners and patients/consumers, which is impeded with current approaches, and reduces regulatory and compendial burden.

pui:25151858
Title:Effectiveness of liposomal antibacterial drugs in inhalation therapy of experimental tuberculosis
Authors:N. Kurunov Yu.I.G. UrsovV.A. KrasnovT.I. PetrenkoN.N. YakovchenkoA.V. SvistelnikP.A. Filimonov
Absract:The model of generalized tuberculosis in BALB/c mice was used to compare efficacy of daily and intermittent (2 times a week) regimens of ultrasound inhalation therapy. This employed water-soluble and liposomal dosages of antituberculous drugs. The highest effect was achieved in daily inhalations of liposomal drugs. In spite of the fact that intermittent regime of the liposomal drugs required a 2-fold lowered dosage, its efficacy was not inferior to daily water-soluble drug therapy and was only by 22% less than maximum. High response to liposomal form stems from prolonged persistence of high rifampicin concentrations in pulmonary tissue.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2018.11.004
Title:Insight into pulmonary drug delivery: Mechanism of drug deposition to device characterization and regulatory requirements
Authors:N. RangarajS.R. PaillaS. Sampathi
Absract:The model of generalized tuberculosis in BALB/c mice was used to compare efficacy of daily and intermittent (2 times a week) regimens of ultrasound inhalation therapy. This employed water-soluble and liposomal dosages of antituberculous drugs. The highest effect was achieved in daily inhalations of liposomal drugs. In spite of the fact that intermittent regime of the liposomal drugs required a 2-fold lowered dosage, its efficacy was not inferior to daily water-soluble drug therapy and was only by 22% less than maximum. High response to liposomal form stems from prolonged persistence of high rifampicin concentrations in pulmonary tissue.

pui:13037033
Title:A comparison of three means of pressurized aerosol inhaler use
Authors:S.W. EpsteinJ.E. ParsonsP.N. Corey
Absract:The bronchodilator response to 200 μg of fenoterol hydrobromide using 3 different methods of inhalation from a pressurized aerosol metered-dose inhaler, was studied in 13 asthmatic patients. On 4 separate days and in random order, patients received either placebo aerosol or fenoterol aerosol delivered by the patients' own technique, delivered under supervision by a trained member of our staff, and delivered with a spacer device (Aerochamber®) attached to the pressurized canister. There was no significant difference in the response to the 3 methods of active drug administration, but there was a significant difference (p < 0.05) from the placebo control values. Thus, in this group of asthmatics the patients' own method of inhalation, using the standard dose of 200 μg of fenoterol from a pressurized aerosol metered-dose inhaler, appears to be as effective a means of bronchodilation as the other techniques used in this study.

pui:47264388
Title:Preparation of ultra low density interferon α-2b powder for inhalation by spray freeze drying
Authors:R.-G. JiangH. LiuL.-Q. WangH. GuoC.-L. Wang
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To prepare protein loaded particles for administration via pulmonary delivery by spray freeze drying. METHODS: Interferon α-2b was chosen as a model protein, and mannitol or lactose was used as main excipients. The particle size, morphology, density and hygroscopicity of obtained products were evaluated. And the deposition of interferon DPIs in vitro was determined using a twin stage impinger. RESULTS: Spray freeze drying produced large porous particles with ultra low tap density (0.016 g·cm@sup_begin-3@sup_end) which possessed high in vitro deposition (up to 38.5%). CONCLUSION: Spray freeze drying produce protein particles with ultra low density suitable for inhalation.

doi:10.1097/00063198-200304001-00001
Title:New frontiers in inhalation therapy for asthma
Authors:H. Magnussen
Absract:Inhalation therapy with β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonists and corticosteroids represents the mainstay of asthma treatment. The successful management of asthma depends not only on the therapeutic efficacy of the drugs prescribed, but also on precise targeting of a drug to the site(s) where it is needed most, and on the decision by patients to comply with their asthma-treatment regimen. New inhalers need to contain appropriate therapeutic agents, have particle dimensions small enough to be deposited in distal airways, and be well tolerated, reliable and easy to use, thus improving patient compliance. © 2003 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Inc.

doi:10.1080/08958370902962283
Title:Inhalative nanomedicine-opportunities and challenges
Authors:M. BurA. HenningS. HeinM. SchneiderC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Inhalation therapy is still limited by the low bioavailability of the administered drugs. Advantages of the pulmonary administration site like large resorption area, low enzymatic equipment, and circumvention of the first pass effect are set into perspective by the rigid barrier properties of the alveolar region. As a consequence, the systemic bioavailability of peptides and proteins is still relatively limited, even when administered by modern pharmaceutical aerosol technologies. In the context of advanced pulmonary drug therapy the use of nanoparticles as alternative to micronsized drug formulation could be of special interest, because nanoparticles seem to overcome some cellular barriers quite efficiently. Besides such outstanding permeation properties, nanoparticles may also hold promises to escape fürom pulmonary clearance mechanisms and to allow for cell-specific targeting within the lung. Such opportunities and challenges of inhalative nanomedicine are reviewed in this short review. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1046/j.1365-2125.2003.01893.x
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery. Part II: The role of inhalant delivery devices and drug formulations in therapeutic effectiveness of aerosolized medications
Authors:N.R. LabirisM.B. Dolovich
Absract:Research in the area of pulmonary drug delivery has gathered momentum in the last several years, with increased interest in using the lung as a means of delivering drugs systemically. Advances in device technology have led to the development of more efficient delivery systems capable of delivering larger doses and finer particles into the lung. As more efficient pulmonary delivery devices and sophisticated formulations become available, physicians and health professionals will have a choice of a wide variety of device and formulation combinations that will target specific cells or regions of the lung, avoid the lung's clearance mechanisms and be retained within the lung for longer periods. It is now recognized that it is not enough just to have inhalation therapy available for prescribing; physicians and other healthcare providers need a basic understanding of aerosol science, inhaled formulations, delivery devices, and bioequivalence of products to prescribe these therapies optimally.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.01.028
Title:Characterisation and functionality of inhalation anhydrous lactose
Authors:C. PitchayajittipongR. PriceJ. ShurJ.S. KaergerS. Edge
Absract:The relationships between the physicochemical properties and functionality in dry powder inhaler (DPI) performance was investigated for inhalation grade anhydrous lactose and compared to monohydrate grades. The excipients were characterised using a range of techniques including particle size analysis, moisture sorption and powder rheometry. The inhalation anhydrous lactose grades were readily characterisable. The aerosolisation performance of capsule based DPI formulations containing budesonide (200μg) and different grades of lactose evaluated using inertial impaction measurements produced fine particle doses of budesonide ranging from 24 to 49μg. There were no apparent relationships between aerosolisation performance and excipient characteristics, such as particle size and powder density. However, formulations containing lactose grades which exhibit higher powder fluidisation energy values resulted in higher fine particle doses of budesonide. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.1996.tb05929.x
Title:Characterization of surfactant effect on aggregates in model aerosol propellent suspensions
Authors:C. BowerC. WashingtonT.S. Purewal
Absract:A novel technique of rheometry combined with image analysis to study model aerosol suspensions used in inhalation technology has been used. The role of surfactants in the stability and aggregation of such suspensions was also investigated. Addition of increasing concentrations of sorbitan monooleate (Span 80) to suspensions of micronized polar solids in model CFC suspensions caused marked changes in aggregate morphology and suspension stability. The aggregate behaviour was characterized in a modified constant stress rheometer by use of image analysis techniques, allowing the measurement of particle size, elongation and fractal dimension as a function of shear stress. This method was used to study the effect of Span 80 on suspensions of lactose and salbutamol sulphate in P113. Lactose suspensions showed a gradual reduction in aggregate size, and more spherical structure, with increasing surfactant concentration. Salbutamol sulphate suspensions displayed a more prominent transition from an aggregated state to a weakly aggregated state at 002%w/w surfactant. Both suspensions were disaggregated by shear, the resulting fractal properties of the aggregates in shear demonstrating the increased particle mobility caused by the surfactant.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S166584
Title:Matrix metalloproteinase 2/9-triggered-release micelles for inhaled drug delivery to treat lung cancer: Preparation and in vitro/in vivo studies
Authors:X. WangQ. ChenX. ZhangX. RenX. ZhangL. MengH. LiangX. ShaX. Fang
Absract:Background: Improvement in drug accumulation in the lungs through inhalation administration and high expression of MMP2 and MMP9 in lung tumors have both been widely reported. Methods: MMP2/9-triggered-release micelles were constructed and in vitro and in vivo studies of inhalation administration against lung tumor carried out. Pluronic P123 (P123) was modified with GPLGIAGQ-NH2 (GQ8) peptide to obtain P123-GQ8 (PG). MMP2/9-triggered-release micelles were constructed using PG and succinylated gelatin (SG) and loading paclitaxel (Ptx). To study biodistribution of micelles, DiR encapsulated in micelles was dosed to rats via intravenous injection or inhalation before ex vivo imaging for detecting DiR quantity in lungs. And B16F10 lung cancer-bearing nude mice were chosen as animal models to evaluate in vivo efficacy of MMP2/9-triggered-release micelles. Results: Ptx-release efficiency from PG-SG-Ptx micelles was MMP2/9-concentration-dependent. For A549 cells, PG-SG-Ptx cytotoxicity was significantly greater (P<0.001) compared to P123-Ptx. Aerosol inhalation was chosen as the method of administration. In biodistribution experiment, DiR quantity in lungs was 5.8%±0.4% of that in major organs, while the ratio was 38.8%±0.5% for inhalation. For B16F10 lung cancer-bearing nude mice, the efficacy of inhalation of PG-SG-Ptx was significantly higher (P<0.001) than Taxol inhalation and injected PG-SG-Ptx. Inhaled PG-SG-Ptx also significantly inhibited the expression of Pgp in lung cancer. Conclusion: Inhalation of MMP2/9-triggered-release micelles increased tumor sensitivity to chemotherapeutics and reduced the toxicity of chemotherapy to healthy lung cells, which has great potential in lung cancer therapy.

doi:10.1002/jps.22246
Title:Physical characterization of TRK-720 hydrate, the very late antigen-4 (VLA-4) inhibitor, as a solid form for inhalation: Preparation of the hydrate by solvent exchange among its solvates and mechanistical considerations
Authors:M. Shiraki
Absract:TRK-720 has been under development as a dry powder inhaler (DPI) for treating bronchial asthma. DPI is a drug formulation of an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) supported by carrier particles. On inhalation, the API particles dissociate from the carriers through physical stimulation and reach the lung through the humid upper airways, therefore, the API has to remain physically and chemically stable despite contact with carriers and low relative humidity. Also it should be pulverized into an appropriate size (1-10 μm) for reaching the target region. To fulfill these requirements, API in crystal form is needed. Polymorphic screening using 42 solvents produced 9 solvates but not the target hydrate or ansolvate crystal. When the solvent was removed from each solvate, only methanolate could reproducibly be converted into hydrate by water vapor substitution. As the hydrate satisfied the above requirements for DPI, it was selected as a solid form for development. Also, the results of single crystal X-ray structural analyses and calculations of crystal packing energies, for five of the solvates, indicated that only the methanolate can be converted into the hydrate through solvent substitution. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12100911
Title:Advances in pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:A. Yıldız-PeközC. Ehrhardt
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery represents an attractive, non-invasive administration option. In addition to locally acting drugs, molecules that are intended to produce systemic effects can be delivered via the pulmonary route. Several factors need to be considered in the context of delivering drugs to or via the lungs—in addition to the drug itself, its formulation into an appropriate inhalable dosage form of sufficient stability is critical. It is also essential that this formulation is paired with a suitable inhaler device, which generates an aerosol of a particle/droplet size that ensures deposition in the desired region of the respiratory tract. Lastly, the patient’s (patho-) physiology and inhalation manoeuvre are of importance. This Special Issue brings together recent advances in the areas of inhalation device testing, aerosol formulation development, use of in vitro and in silico models in pulmonary drug deposition and drug disposition studies, and pulmonary delivery of complex drugs, such as vaccines, antibiotics and peptides, to or via the lungs.

doi:10.1177/1753466618760948
Title:Use of functional respiratory imaging to characterize the effect of inhalation profile and particle size on lung deposition of inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonists delivered via a pressurized metered-dose inhaler
Authors:C. Van HolsbekeJ. De BackerW. VosJ. Marshall
Absract:Background: Functional respiratory imaging (FRI) uses three-dimensional models of human lungs and computational fluid dynamics to simulate functional changes within airways and predict the deposition of inhaled drugs. This study used FRI to model the effects of different patient inhalation and drug formulation factors on lung deposition of an inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist (ICS/LABA) combination, administered by a pressurized metered-dose inhaler. Methods: Three-dimensional models of the lungs of six patients with asthma (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 s, 83%), treated with an ICS/LABA, were included. FRI modelling was used to simulate (1) the effects on lung deposition of inhalation duration and particle size [fine particle fraction (FPF), proportion of particles <5 µm; and mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), average size of inhalable particles]; (2) deposition of fluticasone propionate/formoterol (FP/FORM) 125/5 µg; and (3) how inhalation profiles and flow rates affected FP/FORM deposition. Results: Total lung depositions (TLDs) following 1-, 3- and 5-s inhalations were 22.8%, 36.1% and 41.6% (metered dose), respectively, and central-to-peripheral deposition (C:P) ratios were 1.81, 0.86 and 0.61, respectively. TLD increased with increasing FPF, from ~8% at 10% FPF to ~36% at 40% FPF (metered dose); by contrast, MMAD had little effect on TLD, which was similar across MMADs (1.5–4.5 µm) at each FPF. FP/FORM deposited throughout central and peripheral airways with gradual (sinusoidal) and sharp (rapid) inhalations. TLD ranged from 35.8 to 44.0% (metered dose) for gradual and sharp inhalations at 30 and 60 L/min mean flow rates. Conclusions: These data provide important insights into the potential effects of inhalation characteristics (inhalation profile and duration) and aerosol formulation (FPF) on lung deposition of inhaled therapies. FRI thus represents a useful alternative to scintigraphy techniques. Future FRI studies will further our understanding of the deposition of inhaled drugs and help improve the management of asthma.

doi:10.1155/2018/5076259
Title:Optimizing the delivery of inhaled medication for respiratory patients: The role of valved holding chambers
Authors:R.A. McivorH.M. DevlinA. Kaplan
Absract:Valved holding chambers (VHCs) have been used with pressurized metered-dose inhalers since the early 1980s. They have been shown to increase fine particle delivery to the lungs, decrease oropharyngeal deposition, and reduce side effects such as throat irritation, dysphonia, and oral candidiasis that are common with use of pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) alone. VHCs act as aerosol reservoirs, allowing the user to actuate the pMDI device and then inhale the medication in a two-step process that helps users overcome challenges in coordinating pMDI actuation with inhalation. The design of VHC devices can have an impact on performance. Features such as antistatic properties, effective face-To-facemask seal feedback whistles indicating correct inhalation speed, and inhalation indicators all help improve function and performance, and have been demonstrated to improve asthma control, reduce the rate of exacerbations, and improve quality of life. Not all VHCs are the same, and they are not interchangeable. Each pairing of a pMDI device plus VHC should be considered as a unique delivery system.

doi:10.1016/0041-008X(74)90126-4
Title:Inhalation, parenteral and oral LD50 values of Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end tetrahydrocannabinol in Fischer rats
Authors:H. RosenkrantzI.A. HeymanM.C. Braude
Absract:In order to resolve the differences in reported LD50 values for Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end THC) obtained with various vehicles and rat stains, the oral LD50 values of Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end THC in a natural vegetable oil vehicle and in an aqueous emulsion were determined in the same rat strain. In addition an iv LD50 value obtained with the emulsion formulation was compared with an inhalation LD50. The natural vegetable oil was pure sesame oil and the aqueous emulsion used orally was comprised of 13% sesame oil, 1% polysorbate 80 and isotonic saline. A similar emulsion (7% sesame oil and 0.5% polysorbate 80) was used to establish the iv and ip LP 50 values. The young adult Fischer rat was used in all experiments and the polysorbate 80 concentration in emulsion formulations was maintained below toxic levels for the rodent. Marihuana cutting were impregnated with Δ@sup_begin9@sup_endTHC and formed into cigarettes which were smoked under controlled conditions of puff volume and duration in an automatic smoking machine to obtain an inhalation LD 50. It was demonstrated that behavioral and physiological responses to Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end THC occurred sooner with the oral emulsion formulation than with the vegetable oil. The intragastric LD50 with the emulsion was 800 mg/kg and with the sesame oil formulation, 1270 mg/kg. The iv LD50 was 36-40 mg/kg, similar to the inhalation dose when the latter was corrected for Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end THC losses in the rodent nasal passages. The results from this study affirmed that the LD50 values obtained were reliable and that the vehicle did not contribute to the toxicity.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Biorelevant dissolution to differentiate formulation performance for inhalation
Authors:B. NoriegaM. MalmlöfM. NowenwikP. GerdeM.L. CorvoE. Costa
Absract:The goal of this work is to do a biorelevant characterization of dry powder fluticasone propionate for inhalation formulated as API alone, as a carrier-based formulation and as a composite spray dried formulation. The characterization was performed combining powder collection using the PreciseInhale® system, characterization by SEM and dissolution, using a state of the art biorelevant dissolution system, DissolvIt®. The three formulations exhibited different deposition patterns for similar amounts of collected API, the API alone creates filamentous structures upon deposition, the carrier-based formulation deposits agglomerates of API and lactose, and the composite formulation creates a particle net. Regarding dissolution profile, a significant difference was obtained, with the API alone formulation dissolving slower than the carrier-based formulation, which presents a slower dissolution than the composite spray dried powder, with maximum concentration of 0.17±0.04 %/mL, 0.32±0.09 %/mL and 0.9±0.3 %/mL for the API alone, the carrierbased and the composite formulation, respectively.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2008.08.014
Title:Preparation and characterization of spray-dried tobramycin powders containing nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery
Authors:G. PilcerF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:Using high-pressure homogenization and spray-drying techniques, novel formulations were developed for manufacturing dry powder for inhalation, composed of a mixture of micro- and nanoparticles in order to enhance lung deposition. Particle size analysis was performed by laser diffraction. Spray-drying was applied in order to retrieve nanoparticles in dried-powder state from tobramycin nanosuspensions. The aerolization properties of the different formulations were evaluated by a multi-stage liquid impinger. Suspensions of nanoparticles of tobramycin containing Na glycocholate at 2% (w/w) relative to tobramycin content and presenting a mean particle size about 200 nm were produced. The results from the spray-dried powders showed that the presence of nanoparticles in the formulations improved particle dispersion properties during inhalation. The fine particle fraction (percentage of particles below 5 μm) increased from 36% for the raw micronized tobramycin material to about 61% for the most effective formulation. These new nanoparticle-containing tobramycin DPI formulations, based on the use of very low level of excipient and presenting high lung deposition properties, offer very important perspectives for improving the delivery of drugs to the pulmonary tract. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2004.11.002
Title:What can we learn from atomic force microscopy adhesion measurements with single drug particles?
Authors:C.J. Roberts
Absract:Frequently solid dosage form formulation manufacture and delivery depend critically on the control and exploitation of interparticulate interactions. Traditional approaches to understand such interactions rely on indirect assessments of adhesion or consider the behaviour of large numbers of particles. In recent years, the possibility of characterizing and perhaps quantifying forces of adhesion between individual micron and sub-micron sized particles has become viable using the atomic force microscope. This has significant potential in formulation development, particularly in the optimization of inhalation and other solid-dosage form based therapies. However, before a widespread acceptance of this approach by pharmaceutical scientists and industry can proceed a number of issues remain to be considered. These include how can single particle events be mapped on to bulk behaviour, the need to understand the sometimes wide variations in adhesion data observed and can formulations be compared quantitatively and perhaps be screened by this approach? © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2015.03.002
Title:Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic implications in inhalable antimicrobial therapy
Authors:J.K. MukkerR.S.P. SinghH. Derendorf
Absract:Inhaled antimicrobials provide a promising alternative to the systemically delivered drugs for the treatment of acute and chronic lung infections. The delivery of antimicrobials via inhalation route decreases the systemic exposure while increasing the local concentration in the lungs, enabling the use of antimicrobials with severe systemic side effects. The inhalation route of administration has several challenges in pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) assessments. This review discusses various issues that need to be considered during study, data analysis, and interpretation of PK and PD of inhaled antimicrobials. Advancements overcoming the challenges are also discussed.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2005.09.004
Title:The influence of formulation components on the aerosolisation properties of spray-dried powders
Authors:N.R. RabbaniP.C. Seville
Absract:Dry powders suitable for inhalation containing β-estradiol, leucine as a dispersibility enhancer and lactose as a bulking agent were prepared by spray-drying from aqueous ethanol formulations. The influence of formulation components on the characteristics of the resultant spray-dried powders was examined through the use of a range of ethanol concentrations (10-50% v/v) in the solvent used to prepare the initial formulations. Additionally, the amount of leucine required to act as a dispersibility enhancer was investigated by varying the amount of leucine added to the formulation prior to spray-drying. Following spray-drying, resultant powders were characterised using scanning electron microscopy, laser diffraction and tapped density measurements, and the aerosolisation performance determined using Twin Stage Impinger and Andersen Cascade Impactor analysis. We demonstrate that selection of appropriate solvent systems and leucine concentration allows the preparation of spray-dried powders that display enhanced aerosolisation properties, and would be predicted to exhibit high deposition in the lower regions of the respiratory tract. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666150820110550
Title:Chinese medicine in inhalation therapy: A review of clinical application and formulation development
Authors:X. MiaoJ. ZhouJ. LiY. LiaoY. Zheng
Absract:Chinese medicine (CM) in inhalation therapy has a long history of applications since ancient China in the forms of smoke, steam vapor, medicated pillows and aromatic sachets. Over the years, thousands of clinical treatments involving the inhalation of CMs have been reported for the treatment of respiratory disease. Shuanghuanglian, Yuxingcao and Qingkailing are primarily applied in pneumonia and bronchitis. At present, metered dose inhalation (MDI), aromatic inhalation and nebulized inhalation are used extensively in practice. In particular, nebulized CM for the treatment of respiratory diseases has been applied as a noninvasive route with reduced serious adverse reactions and is equivalent to or more efficacious than its intravenous counterparts. Although nebulized CM is widely used in clinical practice, only three MDI and five aromatic inhalations of CM products have been approved by the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA), and no products in the form of a dry powder inhaler (DPI) or in dosage forms intended for nebulization have been reported. The development of formulations for CM has focused on improving the aerodynamic performance of the particles prepared by spray drying, enhancing the bioavailability and local concentration in the respiratory tract, and increasing the mucoadhesion and sustained release of the CM upon the incorporation of novel excipients. New devices, including MDI and nebulizer devices, have been developed for the delivery of the above-mentioned particles to the pulmonary system. Although the development of CM inhalation products to meet the international quality standards is facing a number of challenges, the inhalation of CMs show great potential for further exploration, particularly as an alternative route to IV infusion for the treatment of respiratory diseases.

doi:10.1016/S0939-6411(02)00044-9
Title:Dry powder inhalation of antibiotics in cystic fibrosis therapy: Part 2. Inhalation of a novel colistin dry powder formulation: A feasibility study in healthy volunteers and patients
Authors:P.P.H Le BrunA.H De BoerG.P.M MannesD.M.I De FratureR.W BrimicombeD.J TouwA.A VinksH.W FrijlinkH.G.M Heijerman
Absract:The aim of the present study was to perform a proof of principle study with a new colistin dry powder inhalation system in six healthy volunteers and five patients with cystic fibrosis. All subjects were asked to inhale 25 mg colistin sulfate dry powder. The patients were also asked to nebulize 160 mg colistin sulfomethate as a solution. Colistin serum concentrations were determined as an indirect parameter to compare both forms of administration. Pulmonary function tests were performed. Peak serum colistin concentrations ranged from 14 to 59 μg/l in volunteers after inhalation of 25 mg as dry powder. In patients, peak concentrations ranged from 18 to 64 μg/l after nebulization of 160 mg colistin sulfomethate solution and from 77 to 159 μg/l after inhalation of 25 mg colistin sulfate dry powder. Pulmonary function tests were not significantly different after inhalation of the dry powder by the volunteers nor after nebulization of the solution by the patients. In some patients a decrease in pulmonary function and moderate to severe cough was observed after inhalation of the dry powder. The new colistin inhaler provides an attractive alternative for nebulized colistin and was highly appreciated by the patients. The decrease in pulmonary function and cough in patients is a drawback, which may be overcome by dose reduction and a further improvement of the new dosage form. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S211182
Title:Rifampicin-carbohydrate spray-dried nanocomposite: A futuristic multiparticulate platform for pulmonary delivery
Authors:M.M. MehannaS.M. MohyeldinN.A. Elgindy
Absract:Purpose: Rifampicin, a first-line anti-tuberculosis drug, was loaded into a carbohydratebased spray-dried nanocomposite with the aim to design a dry powder inhalation formulation. This strategy can enable efficient distribution of rifampicin within the lungs, localizing its action, enhancing its bioavailability and reducing its systemic exposure consequently side effects. Methods: The respirable nanocomposite was developed utilizing spray drying of rifampicin nanosuspension employing a combination of mannitol, maltodextrin and leucine as microparticles matrix formers. Detailed physicochemical characterization and in-vitro inhalation properties of the nanocomposite particles were investigated. Compatibility studies were carried out using differential scanning calorimetry and Infrared spectroscopy techniques. Moreover, pulmonary in-vitro cytotoxicity on alveolar basal epithelial cells was performed and evaluated. Results: Nanocomposite-based rifampicin-loaded dry inhalable powder containing maltodextrin, mannitol and leucine at a ratio of 2:1:1 was successfully formulated. Rifampicin loading efficiency into the carbohydrate nanocomposite was in the range of 89.3% to 99.2% w/w with a suitable particle size (3.47–6.80 µm) and unimodal size distribution. Inhalation efficiency of the spray-dried nanosuspension was significantly improved after transforming into an inhalable carbohydrate composite. Specifically, mannitol-based powder had higher respirable fraction (49.91%) relative to the corresponding formulation of maltodextrin. Additionally, IC@sub_begin50@sub_end value of rifampicin nanocomposite was statistically significantly higher than that of free drug thus providing superior safety profile on lung tissues. Conclusion: The obtained results suggested that spray drying of rifampicin nanosuspension utilizing carbohydrates as matrix formers can enhance drug inhalation performance and reduce cellular toxicity. Thus, representing an effective safer pulmonary delivery of antituberculosis drugs.

doi:10.1183/09031936.00051106
Title:Spacer inhalation technique and deposition of extrafine aerosol asthmatic children
Authors:C.M. RollerG. ZhangR.G. TroedsonC.L. LeachP.N. Le SouëfS.G. Devadason
Absract:The aim of the present study was to measure airway, oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal deposition of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelled hydrofluoroalkane-beclomethasone dipropionate after inhalation via a pressurised metered-dose inhaler and spacer (Aerochamber Plus™) in asthmatic children. A group of 24 children (aged 5-17 yrs) with mild asthma inhaled the labelled drug. A total of 12 children took five tidal breaths after each actuation (tidal group). The other 12 children used a slow maximal inhalation followed by a 5-10-s breath-hold (breath-hold group). Simultaneous anterior and posterior planar γ-scintigraphic scans (120-s acquisition) were recorded. For the tidal group, mean±SD lung deposition (% ex-actuator, attenuation corrected) was 35.4±18.3, 47.5±13.0 and 54.9±11.2 inpatients aged 5-7 (n=4),8-10 (n=4) and 11-17 yrs (n=4), respectively. Oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal deposition was 24.0±10.5, 10.3±4.4 and 10.1±6.2. With the breath-hold technique, lung deposition was 58.1±6.7, 56.6±5.2 and 58.4±9.2. Oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal deposition was 12.9±3.2, 20.1±9.5 and 20.8±8.8. Inhalation of the extrafine formulation with the breath-hold technique showed significantly improved lung deposition compared with tidal breathing across all ages. Oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal deposition was markedly decreased, regardless of which inhalation technique was applied, compared with a previous paediatric study using the same formulation delivered via a breath-actuated metered-dose inhaler. Copyright © ERS Journals Ltd 2007.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.10.003
Title:A levodopa dry powder inhaler for the treatment of Parkinson's disease patients in off periods
Authors:M. LuinstraF. GrasmeijerP. HagedoornJ.R. MoesH.W. FrijlinkA.H. De Boer
Absract:Adequate treatment of Parkinson's patients in off periods with orally administered levodopa is hindered by a poor bioavailability and a slow onset of action. Hence, there is a need for a fast and reliable alternative as for instance via pulmonary administration of the drug. We developed a levodopa containing powder formulation for pulmonary delivery by a recently presented high dose dry powder inhaler (Cyclops). The objective was to produce the drug formulation by means of simple techniques such as micronization, either as pure active substance or with a minimum amount of excipients. After an initial screening on dispersion behaviour, the most promising formulation in the Cyclops was characterized in vitro over a range of pressure drops (2-6 kPa) and doses (20, 30 and 40 mg), representative of those to be expected in practice. A co-micronized levodopa formulation with 2% l-leucine appeared to yield the best aerosol properties for inhalation and highest delivered dose reproducibility. The combination of this particular formulation and the Cyclops inhaler seems to meet the basic requirements for satisfactory deposition in the airways. This formulation is therefore expected to be a promising candidate for the treatment of Parkinson's patients in an off period.

pui:361634622
Title:Pulmonary inhalation aerosols for targeted antibiotics drug delivery
Authors:C.-W. ParkH.M. MansourD. Hayes Jr.
Absract:Targeted pulmonary drug delivery of antibiotics by inhalation aerosols can play significant roles in the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and in other pulmonary diseases where chronic airway infections exist. Direct administration to the lung as targeted pulmonary inhalation aerosol delivery is uniquely able to provide for high dose levels of drugs at the target site of action without systemic side effects. This review presents an overview of pulmonary inhalation aerosols, types of inhalation aerosols, aerosol formulation additives and present current research in the targeted pulmonary drug delivery of antibiotics for the treatment of pulmonary infections. Clinical trials of antibiotic inhalation aerosols are also discussed. © Russell Publishing Limited, 2010, 2011. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.06.013
Title:Optimization of the aerosolization properties of an inhalation dry powder based on selection of excipients
Authors:A. MinneH. BoireauM.J. HortaR. Vanbever
Absract:The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of formulation excipients on physical characteristics of inhalation dry powders prepared by spray-drying. The excipients used were a series of amino acids (glycine, alanine, leucine, isoleucine), trehalose and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC). The particle diameter and the powder density were assessed by laser diffraction and tap density measurements, respectively. The aerosol behaviour of the powders was studied in a Multi-Stage Liquid Impinger. The nature and the relative proportion of the excipients affected the aerosol performance of the powders, mainly by altering powder tap density and degree of particle aggregation. The alanine/trehalose/DPPC (30/10/60 w/w/w) formulation showed optimal aerodynamic behaviour with a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 4.7 μm, an emitted dose of 94% and a fine particle fraction of 54% at an airflow rate of 100 L/min using a Spinhaler inhaler device. The powder had a tap density of 0.10 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end. The particles were spherical with a granular surface and had a 4 μm volume median diameter. In conclusion, optimization of the aerosolization properties of inhalation dry powders could be achieved by appropriately selecting the composition of the particles. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:24028524
Title:Drug delivery to the respiratory tract using dry powder inhalers
Authors:M.P. TimsinaG.P. MartinC. MarriottD. GandertonM. Yianneskis
Absract:The inhalation of aerosolised drug has become a well established treatment modality in conditions such as asthma. The pressurised metered-dose inhaler (MDI) is still the most commonly prescribed inhalation system, despite a number of associated disadvantages. The requirement to replace the ozone- depleting chlorofluoro-carbon propellants, present as an integral part of all MDIs, has led to the pharmaceutical industry re-evaluating the potential of dry powder inhalers (DPIs). However, the efficiency of delivery is currently not high, with in some cases only approx. 10% of the inhaled dose of the drug reaching the alveoli. The site of deposition and the deposition patterns of the inhaled aerosol from DPIs is influenced by two major interdependent factors: (a) the patient (anatomical and physiological aspects of the respiratory tract as well as mode of inhalation) and (b) the physical properties of the aerosol cloud (attributable either to the dry powder formulation or the design of the DPI devices). More recently, as engineers have contributed to the design of DPI devices encouraging results have been obtained in clinical trials performed to compare the efficacy and acceptability of DPI with other drug delivery systems. Undoubtedly more cross-disciplinary collaboration of this kind will lead to further improvements in drug delivery from such formulations and may ultimately provide a feasible means of presenting drugs of peptide origin to the body for systemic therapeutic action.

pui:355844551
Title:Pulmonary delivery as a route for insulin
Authors:P. ShivanandC. AmrutaP. BinalR. MahalaxmiD. ViralN.P. Jivani
Absract:The pulmonary route of administration offers several advantages. First, the lung has a large surface area for drug absorption, ranging from 100 to 140 m@sup_begin2@sup_end. In addition, the alveolar epithelium has permeability that allows for rapid absorption of solutes. Because the mucociliary clearance of the alveolar lung tissue is slower than that of the bronchiolar tissues, the alveoli provide a greater opportunity for the absorption of larger molecules (e.g., insulin). Studies have shown that particle size should be between 1 and 3 micrometers in diameter for optimal deposition in the lung, and that dry powder formulation can deliver more active drug in a single inhalation than liquid aerosol formulations. Patient-controlled variables (e.g., inhalation flow rate, inhaled volume, and duration of inhalation) also need to be controlled for optimal deep-lung insulin delivery. The pharmacodynamic effects of insulin formulations administered via the lung are comparable to, or even faster than, those of subcutaneous injected regular insulin or rapid-acting insulin analogues.

doi:10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.06.058
Title:Losartan-chitosan/dextran sulfate microplex as a carrier to lung therapeutics: Dry powder inhalation, aerodynamic profile and pulmonary tolerability
Authors:E. ElmowafyM.E. Soliman
Absract:This study aims to obtain an inhalation powder with meaningful aerodynamic and safety profiles for the lung delivery of losartan (LS). For this, the capacity of self-assembly of chitosan (CS) and dextran sulfate (DS) to form CS/DS microplex (MC), incorporating high payload of hydrophilic LS was harnessed. Dry powder inhaler (LS-MC-DPI), prepared via spray drying of the best achieved LS-MC, was proposed to impart precise engineered inhalation characteristics. Micrometric robust CS/DS MC was revealed to offer the opportunity to heighten LS encapsulation, accounting for ~75%. LS-MC-DPI was successfully developed with high yield, flowability, respirable aerodynamic size and morphology which formed swellable and mucoadhesive network, facilitating intra-pulmonary delivery. Moreover, sustained release pattern, augmented deep lung deposition and safe histological profile were realized. Overall, the newly developed LS-MC DPI shows promises as an inhalation system. The aerodynamic performance and safety of LS-MC-DPI verify its suitability for further in vivo lung therapeutics.

doi:10.1007/s13346-018-0550-4
Title:Lipid-based pulmonary delivery system: a review and future considerations of formulation strategies and limitations
Authors:C.L. NganA.A. Asmawi
Absract:Inhalation therapy of lipid-based carriers has great potential in direct target towards the root of respiratory diseases, which make them superior over other drug deliveries. With the successful entry of lipid carriers into the target cells, drugs can be absorbed in a sustained release manner and yield extended medicinal effects. Nevertheless, translation of inhalation therapy from laboratory to clinic especially in drug delivery remains a key challenge to the formulators. An ideal drug vehicle should safeguard the drugs from any premature elimination, facilitate cellular uptake, and promote maximum drug absorption with negligible toxicity. Despite knowing that lung treatment can be done via systemic delivery, pulmonary administration is capable of enhancing drug retention within the lungs, while minimizing systemic toxicity with local targeting. Current inhalation therapy of lipid-based carriers can be administered either intratracheally or intranasally to reach deep lung. However, the complex dimensions of lung architectural and natural defense mechanism poise major barriers towards targeted pulmonary delivery. Delivery systems have to be engineered in a way to tackle various diseases according to their biological conditions. This review highlights on the developmental considerations of lipid-based delivery systems cater for the pulmonary intervention of different lung illnesses.

doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2006.10.019
Title:Measles vaccination of macaques by dry powder inhalation
Authors:R.L. de SwartC. LiCalsiA.V. QuirkG. van AmerongenV. NodelmanR. AlcockS. YükselG.H. WardJ.G. HardyH. VosC.L. WithamC.I. GraingerT. KuikenB.J. GreenspanT.G. GardA.D.M.E. Osterhaus
Absract:Measles vaccination via the aerosol route has proven effective under field conditions, using vaccine reconstituted prior to nebulization. Inhalation of a dry powder aerosol vaccine would have additional benefits, including easier logistics of administration, reduced cold chain dependence and the potential of single dose administration. We have evaluated two candidate dry powder measles vaccine formulations in macaques. Specific immune responses were demonstrated, but levels of immunity were lower than in animals vaccinated by injection or by nebulized aerosol. These studies provide proof of principle that dry powder inhalation is a possible route for measles vaccination, but suggest that either the vaccine formulation or the method of delivery need to be improved for a better immune response. © 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

pui:364047940
Title:Evaluation on effectiveness of combination of aerosol inhalation in asthmatic patients with acute attack
Authors:X.-D. LiL.-J. XuC.-Y. LiuQ. ZouZ.-H. CongM. WangH.-Q. Zhang
Absract:Objective: To investigate the influence of terbutaline in combination with inhalation of budesonide on the β2-adrenergic receptor, T lymphocyte subgroup and eosinophile granulocyte (EOS) and the improvement effect on lung function in the acute attack asthmatic patients. Methods: 56 patients with moderate and severe acute attack asthma were selected and randomly divided into control group and treatment group (n=28). The patients in control group were treated with common method such as doxofylline and the patients in treatment group were treated with an additional treatment by applying combination inhalation: budesonide + terbutaline, two times a days the β2ADR, T lymphocyte subgroup, EOS, and lung function were detected before and after treatment. Results: There was no change in the level of β2AR in peripheral blood of patients after treatment in two groups (P>0.05); CD4%, CD4/CD8 and EOS counts of the patients were obviously reduced (P<0.05), PEF and FEV1/FVC were obviously increased (P<0.05) after treatment in two groups, the effect was obvious in treatment group compared with control group (P<0.05). Conclusion: The combination inhalation has the effect of improving asthmatic patient in acute attack period and achieving clinical control in the long term.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.01.014
Title:Development of inhalable formulations of anti-inflammatory drugs to potentially treat smoke inhalation injury in burn victims
Authors:A. ThaiJ. XiaoA.J. AmmitR. Rohanizadeh
Absract:Injury arising from smoke inhalation is a significant mortality risk in severe burned patients. Inflammatory processes are major contributors to the development of respiratory insufficiency owing to pulmonary oedema, formation of airway fibrin clots and hypoxaemia. Anti-inflammatory and anti-coagulant drugs such as heparin and pentoxifylline are currently systemically administered for the treatment of smoke inhalation. Delivery of these drugs in the form of inhalable particles could be an effective manner to achieve rapid targeted action for acceleration of the treatment. The study developed and characterised a series of spray-dried heparin and pentoxifylline dry powder formulations suitable for inhalation administration. Drug particles were co-spray-dried with leucine in varying ratios. Particle size analysis confirmed all powders (except 2%, w/w, pentoxifylline with 1%, w/w, leucine in spray-drying feed solution) had particle size in the optimal range (≤5 μm) for deep lung drug deposition. Leucine supplementation dramatically altered heparin surface topography while pentoxifylline formulations were a mixture of elongated needles interspersed with wrinkly particles. Addition of leucine improved fine particle fraction of heparin and pentoxifylline. The study indicated manufacture of inhalable heparin and pentoxifylline was feasible and can potentially be an attractive delivery alternative to the more conventional systemic delivery route. © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2008.02.014
Title:Formulation, characteristics and aerosolization performance of azithromycin DPI prepared by spray-drying
Authors:M. ZhaoY. YouY. RenY. ZhangX. Tang
Absract:In this study, a number of dry powder formualtions of azithromycin for inhalation were designed to optimize the composition and further explore the relationship between the composition, the physical properties and the aerosolization performance, hence developing a dry powder inhalation (DPI) of azithromycin (AZI) as an alternative to its counterpart nebulizer. Dry powders of azithromycin with a variety of carrier types and carrier:drug ratios were prepared by spray-drying and characterized afterwards for different physical properties, including particle size and distribution, morphology, flowability, powder density and hygroscopic nature. In-vitro deposition was also evaluated after the aerosolization of powders at 60 L min@sup_begin- 1@sup_end via the Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end into a twin-stage liquid impinger (TI). It was found that the type and amount of the carrier had significant effects on the aerosolization performance of DPI. The results also showed that the particle size and flowability were two critical physical properties responsible for the aerosolization performance. Specifically, moderate particle size around 5-6 μm produced relatively high respirable fractions (RF). In terms of the flowability, the angle of repose within the range of 43°-52° was in a good linear relationship (r = 0.9523) with the RF value. In particular, the addition of L-leucine with the carrier:drug ratio of 1:5 showed the highest RF at 37.5%, which indicated that L-leucine is a promising carrier for the dry powder formulation of AZI for inhalation. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0928-0987(02)00126-4
Title:Lactose modifications enhance its drug performance in the novel multiple dose Taifun® DPI
Authors:P. HarjunenV.-P. LehtoK. MartimoE. SuihkoT. LankinenP. ParonenK. Järvinen
Absract:Drug-carrier particle interactions greatly affect the detachment of drug from the carrier in inhalation powders. In this study, a novel multiple dose, reservoir-based Taifun® was used as a dry powder inhaler, and the effects of carrier physical properties were evaluated on the pulmonary deposition of budesonide, along with physical stability of the inhalation powder. In this study, untreated commercial preparation of α-lactose monohydrate, highly amorphous spray dried lactose, crystallized spray dried lactose, Flowlac-100® and Flowlac-100® mixed with crystalline micronized lactose were used as carriers. Dry powder formulations were prepared by the suspension method, where the budesonide-carrier ratio was 1:15.1 (w/w). Carriers and formulations were initially characterized, and again after 1 month's storage at 40°C/75% RH. The physical properties of the carriers strongly affected the pulmonary deposition of budesonide and the physical stability of the inhalation powder. Initially, amorphous contents of the carriers were 0-64%, but spontaneous crystallisation of the amorphous lactose occurred during storage and, thus all carriers were 100% crystalline after storage. When compared to an untreated α-lactose monohydrate, the highly amorphous spray dried lactose and Flowlac-100® did not improve aerosol performance of the inhalation powder. When crystalline spray dried lactose was used as a carrier, the highest RF% values were achieved, and RF % values did not alter during storage but the emitted budesonide dose was lower than the theoretical dose. When Flowlac-100® mixed with crystalline micronized lactose was used as a carrier, the emitted budesonide dose was close to the theoretical dose, and high RF % values were achieved but these changed during storage. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s11095-013-1015-6
Title:Optimization of the fine particle fraction of a lyophilized lysozyme formulation for dry powder inhalation
Authors:S. ClausC. WeilerJ. SchieweW. Friess
Absract:Purpose: A new dry powder inhalation technology creates inhalable particles from a coherent lyophilized bulk at the time of inhalation. The aim of this study was to evaluate several approaches to improve the fine particle fraction (FPF) and to understand underlying mechanisms. Methods: Lysozyme was chosen as model drug. Phenylalanine and valine were added, and the freezing process was varied. Lyophilisate characteristics as well as aerosolization behavior was analyzed. Results: The addition of the crystalline amino acids rendered a dose independent three-fold increase of the FPF. This is possibly due to enhanced fracture properties of the lyophilisates upon impact of the air stream and reduced particle agglomeration/cohesion caused by a rougher surface. This positive effect was well preserved over 3 months of storage. The structure of the lyophilisate was influenced by the freezing process which in turn affected the aerosolization behavior. Liquid nitrogen and vacuum-induced freezing performed best, doubling the FPF. The special cake morphology with elongated channels enabled easy disintegration. The resulting large porous particles comprise a low density being advantageous for a high FPF. Conclusion: The variation of the lyophilization process and formulation utilizing excipients enabled an optimization of the FPF of the novel lyophilisate based DPI system. © 2013 Springer Science+Business Media New York.

doi:10.1097/00063198-200304001-00002
Title:Inhalation therapy for bronchial asthma: Strategies and targets
Authors:H. Magnussen
Absract:Bronchial asthma is associated with symptoms, reversible airflow obstruction, airway hyper-responsiveness and inflammation along large and small airways. Inhalation therapy with bronchodilators (relievers) and anti-inflammatory agents (controllers) forms the basis of treatment for most patients with asthma of different severities. Conventionally, therapeutic efficacy is assessed on the basis of improvements in symptoms and lung function. However, airway hyper-responsiveness as a primary outcome may change therapeutic strategies. There are problems associated with this concept which need to be addressed, such as the heterogeneity of airway inflammation in the asthmatic lung. The goals for inhalation therapy should be to determine the site of airway inflammation for each degree of asthma severity, to improve inhaler technology, ensuring that the drug can reach the site of inflammation, and to improve compliance. New inhalers need to do the following: contain appropriate therapeutic agents; have particle dimensions small enough to be deposited in distal airways; and minimize the effects of incorrect inhalation and low compliance. © 2003 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Inc.

doi:10.1248/yakushi1947.119.10_752
Title:Effect of separation characteristics between salbutamol sulfate (SS) particles and model carrier excipients on dry powder for inhalation
Authors:K. IidaH. LeuenbergerL.-M. FuegR. Müller-WalzK. Danjo
Absract:Most often dry powder for inhalation are formulated as ordered mixtures of a carrier excipient and a micronized drug substance. In the present study, model powder blends were prepared from a mixture of lactose α-monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose pellets or synthesized sugar as carrier particles, and micronized salbutamol sulfate (SS). These ordered mixtures were aerosolized by the multidose JAGO dry powder inhaler (DPI) and their in vitro deposition properties were evaluated by a twin impinger (TI). The separation force between SS particles and carrier particles was investigated by the centrifuge method. In addition, the use of the air jet sieve (AJS) method was investigated to assess the separation behavior of drug particles from carrier excipient. Powder blends were sieved through a 325 mesh wire screen of an air jet sieve at an air pressure of 1500 Pa. The amount of drug deposited at the carrier surface was analysed before and after the sieving to calculate the percentage of the drug retained. A relationship was found between in vitro deposition properties (fine particle fraction, FPF) and the separation characteristics obtained by the centrifuge method and by the AJS method. The AJS method might be a suitable alternative for evaluating separation of a drug particle from carrier particles and hence can be used for the formulation screening of the dry powder inhalation.

doi:10.3109/10717544.2013.878002
Title:Influence of potential inhalation carriers on stability of thymopentin in rat bronchoalveolar lavage fluid
Authors:C. CaiL. WangW. DongX. Tang
Absract:In the present study, the stability of thymopentin (TP5) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) in presence of potential excipients in inhalation formulation was investigated. The content of TP5 was determined using HPLC method. Commonly used bulking agent, dispersibility enhancers and absorption enhancers in inhalation were investigated with respect to the stability of TP5 in BALF. Finally, the stability of TP5 in two inhalation formulations based on the screening experiments was tested in BALF. The results showed that TP5 alone degraded very rapidly in BALF and zero-order enzymatic reaction with a half-life of t@sub_begin0.5@sub_end = 49.20 min was observed using 10 times diluted BALF. Among the amino acids examined, leucine and phenylalanine effectively inhibited the enzymolysis of TP5 with prolonged half-life of 112.7 min and 136.2 min, respectively. Nevertheless, slight but insignificant inhibition effect was witnessed for tyrosine, aspartic acid, and lysine; and negligible prevention on the degradation process of TP5 were found for lactose and mannitol. Regarding chitosan, irrespective with molecular weight, the formation of chitosan-TP5 complex improved the stability of TP5 with prolonged t@sub_begin0.5@sub_end by 1.8 times. However, along with the improved stability of TP5 in spray-dried chitosan microspheres, the content of TP5 in formulations was reduced to about 75% during preparation process. Thus, leucine was proved to be a prior candidate for inhalation formulation of TP5. Consequently, the results indicate the potential of leucine as carrier for pulmonary delivery of TP5 serving as both stabilizer and dispersibility enhancer. © 2014 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1183/09031936.02.00264002
Title:Bronchial reactions to the inhalation of high-dose tobramycin in cystic fibrosis
Authors:W.H. NikolaizikK. TrociewiczF. Ratjen
Absract:It has been established that inhaled tobramycin has a positive effect on respiratory function in Pseudomonas-aeruginosa positive patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). In a previous study the authors reported that low-dose tobramycin preparations containing the preservative phenol caused significant bronchial obstruction. Recently, high-dose tobramycin preparations with and without preservatives/phenol have become available. To assess the airway response to these preparations flow/volume curves in 12 patients with CF (four males, eight females, mean age±SD=19.0±7.4 yrs) were measured. The tobramycin preparations: Nebicina® 2.0 mL (150 mg, containing the preservative phenol), Distobram® 3.0 mL (150 mg, containing preservatives), Tobi® 5.0 mL (300 mg), Tobi® 2.5 mL (150 mg), and Tobi® 5.0 mL, were used after bronchodilator application. Immediately and/or 5 min after the tobramycin inhalations there was a significant fall in lung function with the different preparations. There was no significant difference between preparations with and without preservatives/phenol. The bronchial obstruction was comparable to that observed after the inhalation of low-dose tobramycin and after saline. After 10 min of inhalation, the lung function returned to baseline values. Most patients preferred the Tobi® 2.5 mL and disliked the Nebicina® preparation due to the unpleasant taste. Preceding treatment with bronchodilators prevented the decline in lung function. Assessment of bronchial response at the first nebulisation of high-dose tobramycin and, in case of significant obstruction, β-agonists in combination with the antibiotic inhalation are recommended.

pui:366250026
Title:Inhalation manufacturing: Cold fill, pressure fill, and finding the right partner
Authors:R. Errington
Absract:In this article, Mr Ross Errington, Business Development Manager, 3M Drug Delivery Systems, explains two pMDI canister filling methods - cold filling and pressure filling. He describes how each method can be applied to meet different formulation requirements, and outlines considerations for pharma companies when selecting an MDI manufacturer. © 2012 Frederick Furness Publishing.

doi:10.1177/001857870303801009
Title:Unit-dose capsules for inhalation; an example of how color-coding can contribute to medication errors; is an antithyroid or antimetabolite needed? Preventing confusion between propylthiouracil and Purinethol
Authors:M.R. Cohen
Absract:In this article, Mr Ross Errington, Business Development Manager, 3M Drug Delivery Systems, explains two pMDI canister filling methods - cold filling and pressure filling. He describes how each method can be applied to meet different formulation requirements, and outlines considerations for pharma companies when selecting an MDI manufacturer. © 2012 Frederick Furness Publishing.

doi:10.1378/chest.103.3.981b
Title:An unusual case of severe anaphylaxis due to ipratropium bromide inhalation [8]
Authors:W.D. BoneD.E. Amundson
Absract:In this article, Mr Ross Errington, Business Development Manager, 3M Drug Delivery Systems, explains two pMDI canister filling methods - cold filling and pressure filling. He describes how each method can be applied to meet different formulation requirements, and outlines considerations for pharma companies when selecting an MDI manufacturer. © 2012 Frederick Furness Publishing.

doi:10.1007/s11095-010-0084-z
Title:Formulation development and in vivo evaluation of a new dry powder formulation of albuterol sulphate in beagle dogs
Authors:P.J. KuehlE.G. BarrettJ.D. McDonaldK. RudolphD. VodakD. DobryD. Lyon
Absract:Purpose Study objectives were to develop, characterize, and evaluate a novel excipient for dry powder inhalation formulations in a canine model with a model compound. Methods Dry powder inhalation formulations of albuterol sulphate were developed and compared to a commercially available nebulizer albuterol solution formulation. In vitro analysis indicated a high fine-particle fraction (FPF, >70%) and a respirable particle size (∼2.5 μm MMAD). Each inhalation formulation, including controls, was delivered targeting a deposited lung dose of 10 μg/kg albuterol. Active formulations were evaluated for pharmacokinetic (PK) profile and bronchodilatory effects in a ragweed-sensitized dog model of allergic airway responses. Results In vitro, the dextran spray-dried formulated materials showed that aerosol performance, including FPF MMAD, glass transition temperature, and amorphous characteristics, were all largely unaffected by amount of drug loaded. Both the commercial and the dry powder formulations attenuated the ragweed-induced bronchoconstriction by 91.59±3.60 and 81.28 ± 9.29%, respectively. The PK profiles for both albuterol formulations were similar, as were the corresponding T @sub_beginmax@sub_end, C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and T @sub_begin1/2@sub_end. Conclusions Results indicate that dextran 10 has promise as a novel excipient for dry powder inhalation drug delivery, in a preclinical setting, over a wide range of drug loadings. © 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1097/ALN.0b013e3182475d80
Title:Getting oil and water to mix
Authors:E.D. Kharasch
Absract:Purpose Study objectives were to develop, characterize, and evaluate a novel excipient for dry powder inhalation formulations in a canine model with a model compound. Methods Dry powder inhalation formulations of albuterol sulphate were developed and compared to a commercially available nebulizer albuterol solution formulation. In vitro analysis indicated a high fine-particle fraction (FPF, >70%) and a respirable particle size (∼2.5 μm MMAD). Each inhalation formulation, including controls, was delivered targeting a deposited lung dose of 10 μg/kg albuterol. Active formulations were evaluated for pharmacokinetic (PK) profile and bronchodilatory effects in a ragweed-sensitized dog model of allergic airway responses. Results In vitro, the dextran spray-dried formulated materials showed that aerosol performance, including FPF MMAD, glass transition temperature, and amorphous characteristics, were all largely unaffected by amount of drug loaded. Both the commercial and the dry powder formulations attenuated the ragweed-induced bronchoconstriction by 91.59±3.60 and 81.28 ± 9.29%, respectively. The PK profiles for both albuterol formulations were similar, as were the corresponding T @sub_beginmax@sub_end, C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and T @sub_begin1/2@sub_end. Conclusions Results indicate that dextran 10 has promise as a novel excipient for dry powder inhalation drug delivery, in a preclinical setting, over a wide range of drug loadings. © 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_22
Title:Developing performance specifications for pulmonary products
Authors:S.T. HorhotaS. Leiner
Absract:In comparison to many other pharmaceutical dosage forms, the regulatory picture for quality aspects of pulmonary products is still undergoing rapid and dynamic evolution. The purpose of this chapter is to examine aspects of product testing, specifications, and their accompanying regulatory processes which on one hand might also be considered as yet further barriers by those seeking to bring new inhalation treatments into fruition while oppositely embraced by others as a way to preserve knowledge and prevent a repetition of harmful errors. These are discussed in reference to the divergent international views on how to manage the integration of drug product and device requirements. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1007/s11095-012-0774-9
Title:Magnetised thermo responsive lipid vehicles for targeted and controlled lung drug delivery
Authors:D. UpadhyayS. ScaliaR. VogelN. WheateR.O. SalamaP.M. YoungD. TrainiW. Chrzanowski
Absract:Purpose Conditions such as lung cancer currently lack noninvasively targetable and controlled release topical inhalational therapies. Superparamagnetic iron-oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) have shown promising results as a targetable therapy. We aimed to fabricate and test the in-vitro performance of particles with SPION and drug within a lipid matrix as a potentially targetable and thermo-sensitive inhalable drug-delivery system. Methods Budesonide and SPIONs were incorporated into lipid particles using oil-in-water emulsification. Particles size, chemical composition, responsiveness to magnetic field, thermosensitiveness and inhalation performance in-vitro were investigated. Results Particles of average diameter 2-4 μm with budesonide and SPIONs inside the lipid matrix responded to a magnetic field with 100% extraction at a distance of 5 mm. Formulations were shown to have accelerated rate of drug release at hyperthermic temperatures (45°C)-controlled release. The produced inhalation dry powder presented promising inhalation performance, with an inhalable fine particle fraction of 30%. Conclusions The lipid system presented thermo-sensitive characteristics, suitable for controlled delivery, the model drug and SPION loaded lipid system was magnetically active and movable using simple permanent magnets, and the system demonstrates promise as an effective drug vehicle in targeted and controlled inhalation therapy. © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012.

pui:373383507
Title:Artificial neural networks & tissue models: For inhaled formulation screening, selection & bioequivalence testing
Authors:M. BrownJ. MuddleC. Page
Absract:Purpose Conditions such as lung cancer currently lack noninvasively targetable and controlled release topical inhalational therapies. Superparamagnetic iron-oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) have shown promising results as a targetable therapy. We aimed to fabricate and test the in-vitro performance of particles with SPION and drug within a lipid matrix as a potentially targetable and thermo-sensitive inhalable drug-delivery system. Methods Budesonide and SPIONs were incorporated into lipid particles using oil-in-water emulsification. Particles size, chemical composition, responsiveness to magnetic field, thermosensitiveness and inhalation performance in-vitro were investigated. Results Particles of average diameter 2-4 μm with budesonide and SPIONs inside the lipid matrix responded to a magnetic field with 100% extraction at a distance of 5 mm. Formulations were shown to have accelerated rate of drug release at hyperthermic temperatures (45°C)-controlled release. The produced inhalation dry powder presented promising inhalation performance, with an inhalable fine particle fraction of 30%. Conclusions The lipid system presented thermo-sensitive characteristics, suitable for controlled delivery, the model drug and SPION loaded lipid system was magnetically active and movable using simple permanent magnets, and the system demonstrates promise as an effective drug vehicle in targeted and controlled inhalation therapy. © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012.

doi:10.7326/0003-4819-134-9_part_1-200105010-00020
Title:Inhaled insulin: A proof-of-concept study [1]
Authors:W.T. Cefalu
Absract:Purpose Conditions such as lung cancer currently lack noninvasively targetable and controlled release topical inhalational therapies. Superparamagnetic iron-oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) have shown promising results as a targetable therapy. We aimed to fabricate and test the in-vitro performance of particles with SPION and drug within a lipid matrix as a potentially targetable and thermo-sensitive inhalable drug-delivery system. Methods Budesonide and SPIONs were incorporated into lipid particles using oil-in-water emulsification. Particles size, chemical composition, responsiveness to magnetic field, thermosensitiveness and inhalation performance in-vitro were investigated. Results Particles of average diameter 2-4 μm with budesonide and SPIONs inside the lipid matrix responded to a magnetic field with 100% extraction at a distance of 5 mm. Formulations were shown to have accelerated rate of drug release at hyperthermic temperatures (45°C)-controlled release. The produced inhalation dry powder presented promising inhalation performance, with an inhalable fine particle fraction of 30%. Conclusions The lipid system presented thermo-sensitive characteristics, suitable for controlled delivery, the model drug and SPION loaded lipid system was magnetically active and movable using simple permanent magnets, and the system demonstrates promise as an effective drug vehicle in targeted and controlled inhalation therapy. © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012.

pui:40807595
Title:Polymers for controlled release: Formulation follows function
Authors:M. Rios
Absract:Today's polymers offer increased functionality and improved processability to meet formulators' needs.

doi:10.1093/bja/80.4.564
Title:Bronchospasm during inhalation of nebulized midazolam (multiple letters) [4]
Authors:A.S.M. McCormickV.L. ThomasL.M. Bromley
Absract:Today's polymers offer increased functionality and improved processability to meet formulators' needs.

doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2019.10.023
Title:In reply—Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension as a Treatment Option for Refractory Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Caused by Mycobacterium avium Complex
Authors:J. Shulha
Absract:Today's polymers offer increased functionality and improved processability to meet formulators' needs.

doi:10.1080/03639040802282912
Title:Preface for innovative inhalation technologies - Special edition
Authors:J.T. McConvilleF.J. McInnesA.C. Ross
Absract:Today's polymers offer increased functionality and improved processability to meet formulators' needs.

doi:10.1093/jnci/94.8.556
Title:Aerosolized chemotherapy? Inhalation therapy gains ground
Authors:J. McCann
Absract:Today's polymers offer increased functionality and improved processability to meet formulators' needs.

pui:620600603
Title:Tackling complex generics: Analytical techniques to support the deformulation and development of orally inhaled products
Authors:P. Kippax
Absract:Today's polymers offer increased functionality and improved processability to meet formulators' needs.

doi:10.1517/13543776.12.5.755
Title:An inhaled VLA-4 antagonist
Authors:P. Kippax
Absract:Dry powder, micronised formulations of a single peptidic VLA-4 antagonist are claimed. Their use is claimed to provide a method of treating asthma and other inflammatory diseases when administered via inhalation. The active ingredient of these formulations is deduced to be the clinical candidate GW-559090.

doi:10.1007/BF00315473
Title:Evaluation of a new spacer device for drug inhalation
Authors:B. Stenius-AarnialaK. KivirantaH. Poppius
Absract:We have studied the efficacy and acceptability of a new inhalation spacer device. The functional principle of the device, differing from that of conventional spacers, is based on evaporation of the propellant during circular movement of the aerosol in a small spherical chamber. We assessed the bronchodilating effect of salbutamol (Salbuvent®) inhaled with the new spacer (Rondo®) compared with salbutamol (Ventoline®) inhaled with the spacer Volumatic® and with salbutamol (Salbuvent®) inhaled with a conventional metered dose actuator using a double-blind cross-over arrangement. Fifteen asthmatic patients were treated over a period of 4 weeks. They used each of the three different devices for 2-3 days every week. Peak expiratory flow rates were recorded every morning after one and after two puffs of the study drugs. The bronchodilator responses to the three treatments were similar within narrow ranges of estimate. By visual analogue scale assessment the new spacer was significantly easier to handle (P < 0.05) and more convenient to carry around (P < 0.01) than Volumatic®.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.06.058
Title:A modified USP induction port to characterize nasal spray plume geometry and predict turbinate deposition under flow
Authors:D. Moraga-EspinozaZ. WarnkenA. MooreR.O. WilliamsH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:There is currently no in vitro technique for assessing plume geometry of nasal sprays under airflow conditions. However, a majority of FDA approved nasal products recommend that patients inhale during actuation. Therefore, a reproducible in vitro test that measures plume angles under physiologically relevant inhalation flow rates would be useful. The purpose of this study was to adapt the recently described Plume Induction Port Evaluator (PIPE) apparatus for nasal sprays under flow and correlate these with nasal cast deposition patterns. Mass Median Plume Angles (MMPAs) of four nasal spray formulations with increasing viscosities were determined using the PIPE apparatus in the absence and presence of airflow. MMPAs were then correlated to drug deposition within 3D printed nasal casts using airflow. We evaluated different inhalation instructions obtained from the package insert of nasal products. MMPAs significantly reduced (narrower angles) when using flow for the three formulations with the lowest viscosities. An increase in the turbinate deposition was observed in the nasal casts when just one of the nostrils was closed during inhalation, except by the highest viscosity formulation. The turbinate deposition numerically correlated with changes in the plume angles observed using PIPE.

pui:30104195
Title:A comparison of bronchodilation after a metered dose of 'Berodual' and 'Ventolin' aerosols and 'Berodual' dry powder
Authors:A. ZapletalJ. HakJ. Rydlova
Absract:In a group of 49 asthmatic children and adolescents (33 males, 16 females, age: 8 - 18 years, height: 128 - 182 cm) during the symptom-free period bronchodilation was studied after 2 puffs of 'Berodual' aerosol (100 μg of fenoterol + 40 μg of ipratropium bromide), 2 puffs of 'Ventolin' aerosol (200 μg of salbutamol), and dry 'Berodual' powder (100 μg of fenoterol + 40 μg of ipratropium bromide). For the assessment of bronchodilation parameters derived from the maximum expiratory flow-volume (MEFV) curve were measured before, 30 and 60 min. after inhalation of bronchodilators. The dose in both 'Berodual' preparations was the same. In 2 puffs of 'Ventolin' the dose of beta-2 mimetic was doubled (200 μg of salbutamol) in comparison with the amount of beta-2 mimetic in 2 puffs of 'Berodual' aerosol and powder (100 μg of fenoterol). No significant differences were observed in any lung function parameters before the inhalation of the 3 bronchodilators (p = 0.15 - 0.96). All lung function parameters increased significantly after the 3 studied bronchodilators at both intervals 30 and 60 minutes (p < 0.01 - < 0.0001). The greatest percentual increase (20 - 39%) was observed in maximum expiratory flows (MEF25 and MEF50) and the area delineated by the MEFV curve (Aex). One-second forced expiratory volume (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and peak expiratory flow (PEF) increased only in the range 9.5 - 12.5%. Bronchodilation after aerosol and dry powder inhalations was significantly higher (with a smaller risk from side effects of beta-2 mimetics) than after aerosol inhalation of 'Ventolin' at both intervals (30 and 60 minutes). The difference was statistically significant (p < 0.04 - < 0.0001). A tendency towards a higher degree of bronchodilation after dry powder inhalation of 'Berodual' was observed in comparison with inhalation of the same dose of 'Berodual' aerosol.

doi:10.1183/09031936.03.00018202
Title:A cyclosporin A/maltosyl-α-cyclosdextrin complex for inhalation therapy of asthma
Authors:H. FukayaA. IimuraK. HoshikoT. FuyumuroS. NojiT. Nabeshima
Absract:The inhalation of cyclosporin (Cs)A to the lung is limited by its hydrophobic properties. In order to improve the poor solubility of CsA, cyclodextrin (CD) was evaluated for its suitability for dry powder inhaler formation, and the benefit of an inhaled CsA/CD complex in vivo was demonstrated. The solubilising effect of CDs on CsA was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Ciliostatic activity and haemolysis were determined to assess some safety profiles of CDs. The efficacy of an inhaled CsA/CD complex was evaluated by eosinophil infiltration into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in actively sensitised mice. CDs markedly improved the poor solubility of CsA. The ciliostatic and haemolytic activities of maltosyl-α-CD were the weakest of all the tested CDs. CsA inhaled alone showed inhibitory effects on allergen-induced eosinophilia. Inhalation of the complex of CsA with maltosyl-α-CD, where the dose of CsA was approximately nine-times less than that of CsA inhaled alone, also inhibited eosinophil accumulation significantly, with a longer duration of action in comparison with the response to CsA alone. Thus the effective dose of cyclosporin A could be reduced by formation of a complex with maltosyl-α-cyclodextrin, and a wider therapeutic safety margin by inhalation of cyclosporin A as a complex with maltosyl-α-cyclodextrin could be expected.

pui:368187271
Title:The future of DPIs: Aligning design with market demands
Authors:G. Williams
Absract:The inhalation of cyclosporin (Cs)A to the lung is limited by its hydrophobic properties. In order to improve the poor solubility of CsA, cyclodextrin (CD) was evaluated for its suitability for dry powder inhaler formation, and the benefit of an inhaled CsA/CD complex in vivo was demonstrated. The solubilising effect of CDs on CsA was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Ciliostatic activity and haemolysis were determined to assess some safety profiles of CDs. The efficacy of an inhaled CsA/CD complex was evaluated by eosinophil infiltration into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid in actively sensitised mice. CDs markedly improved the poor solubility of CsA. The ciliostatic and haemolytic activities of maltosyl-α-CD were the weakest of all the tested CDs. CsA inhaled alone showed inhibitory effects on allergen-induced eosinophilia. Inhalation of the complex of CsA with maltosyl-α-CD, where the dose of CsA was approximately nine-times less than that of CsA inhaled alone, also inhibited eosinophil accumulation significantly, with a longer duration of action in comparison with the response to CsA alone. Thus the effective dose of cyclosporin A could be reduced by formation of a complex with maltosyl-α-cyclodextrin, and a wider therapeutic safety margin by inhalation of cyclosporin A as a complex with maltosyl-α-cyclodextrin could be expected.

pui:33069413
Title:Characterizing physical forms of powders: Impact and advances
Authors:G. Buckton
Absract:The importance of physical characterization, and advances that have occurred in the related technologies, are examined and addressed in this article, taking account of changes in the process development of new chemical entities (NCEs), demands for different drug delivery routes, intellectual property (IP) and regulatory updates.

pui:607897949
Title:Aseptic primary packaging: Using blow/fill/sea/technology to ensure the highest aseptic assurance level possible for liquid products
Authors:T. Kram
Absract:The importance of physical characterization, and advances that have occurred in the related technologies, are examined and addressed in this article, taking account of changes in the process development of new chemical entities (NCEs), demands for different drug delivery routes, intellectual property (IP) and regulatory updates.

pui:612875736
Title:In and out
Authors:P. VillaxG. Andrade
Absract:The importance of physical characterization, and advances that have occurred in the related technologies, are examined and addressed in this article, taking account of changes in the process development of new chemical entities (NCEs), demands for different drug delivery routes, intellectual property (IP) and regulatory updates.

pui:635592368
Title:Abstracts from the Aerosol Society Drug Delivery to the Lungs 31
Authors:P. VillaxG. Andrade
Absract:The proceedings contain 65 papers. The topics discussed include: surfactant foam therapy for severe covid-19 patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS); how to design materials for inhalation devices to be more sustainable?; environmental impacts of inhalers - a cradle to grave review; the application of thermofluid mechanic modelling to the development of novel PMDI devices; 5-azacytidine inhaled dry powder formulation profoundly improves pharmacokinetics and efficacy for lung cancer therapy through genome reprogramming; systems engineering approaches to device development; pseudomonas phage cocktail powders for respiratory infections; engineering of inhalable microparticles containing terbinafine for management of pulmonary fungal infections; development of airways protection against respiratory Nipah virus infection by inhalation of antiviral peptides; and development of inhalable powder formulation of broad-spectrum antiviral agent for respiratory viral infections.

doi:10.1007/s13346-021-00967-w
Title:Inhaled antibodies: formulations require specific development to overcome instability due to nebulization
Authors:A. MayorB. ThibertS. HuilleR. RespaudH. AudatN. Heuzé-Vourc’h
Absract:Abstract: Respiratory infections are life-threatening and therapeutic antibodies (Ab) have a tremendous opportunity to benefit to patients with pneumonia due to multidrug resistance bacteria or emergent virus, before a vaccine is manufactured. In respiratory infections, inhalation of anti-infectious Ab may be more relevant than intravenous (IV) injection-the standard route-to target the site of infection and improve Ab therapeutic index. One major challenge associated to Ab inhalation is to prevent protein instability during the aerosolization process. Ab drug development for IV injection aims to design a high-quality product, stable to different environment stress. In this study, we evaluated the suitability of Ab formulations developed for IV injection to be extended for inhalation delivery. We studied the aerosol characteristics and the aggregation profile of three Ab formulations developed for IV injection after nebulization, with two mesh nebulizers. Although the formulations for IV injection were compatible with mesh nebulization and deposition into the respiratory tract, the Ab were more unstable during nebulization than exposition to a vigorous shaking. Overall, our findings indicate that Ab formulations developed for IV delivery may not easily be repurposed for inhalation delivery and point to the requirement of a specific formulation development for inhaled Ab. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.].

doi:10.1016/S0954-6111(97)90099-8
Title:General factors influencing drug delivery to the lung
Authors:D. Ganderton
Absract:The first devices to be developed for the delivery of bronchodilators and corticosteroids for the treatment of asthma were the pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). While pMDIs are viewed as patient friendly, they are associated with some serious disadvantages, such as considerable oropharyngeal deposition (due to the speed of delivery of the dose) and poor patient co-ordination of inhalation and activation. This has resulted in the development of alternative systems, such as the dry powder inhaler (DPI). However, DPIs also have problems, as there are difficulties in handling, measuring and metering fine particles. New devices, such as the Easi-breathe® and Diskus® inhalers, are now being introduced to overcome some of these problems. The ideal device is one that will produce a large proportion of respirable particles in the emitted dose. It must also deliver precise and uniform doses of drug to the patient. Further innovations are required to achieve these goals.

pui:24209452
Title:Pressurized pack-based liposomes for pulmonary targeting of isoprenaline - Development and characterization
Authors:S.P. VyasT. Sakthivel
Absract:Pressurized packs containing a phospholipid and drug that permits in situ formation of liposomes following deposition of the aerosolized cloud in the respiratory tract have been investigated. Prepared pressure packs and preformed liposomes of different lipoidal contents were characterized for shape, size, lamellarity and percentage drug entrapment. Pressure packs were studied for airway penetration efficiency. The study revealed that pressure packs-derived liposomes containing isoprenaline were fairly comparable with preformed liposomes by the ether injection method. The liposomal charge was found to effect drug disposition. However, drug sustained action was recorded in the case of liposomal inhalation(s) as compared to plain drug inhalation. The pressure packs thus demonstrated therapeutic potentiality in lung targeting of isoprenaline, as well as avoiding the liposome stability problem.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.00A1
Title:Emerging inhaled therapies in the intensive care unit
Authors:R. DhandS. Harry
Absract:Critically ill patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) commonly receive inhaled bronchodilators, and this form of therapy is well established. In recent years, advancements in technology along with an emphasis on the science of aerosol delivery in ventilated patients have led to many promising investigations of novel therapies and drug formulations. These therapies, including antimicrobials, surfactant, prostanoids, anti-rejection, and mucoactive agents, have broad applications in the ICU. The mixture of gases employed for inhalation (helium/oxygen, nitric oxide, carbon monoxide) could be altered to enhance physiologic and pharmacological effects. Other inhaled agents, including perfluorobron, anti-inflammatory agents, and genes, are under active investigation with the potential to vastly improve outcomes for diseases that are presently associated with a high mortality. Novel and emerging inhaled therapies hold the promise of radically new approaches to treatment for a wide variety of indications in the intensive care unit.

doi:10.1016/S0169-409X(97)00506-1
Title:Preparation of peptide and protein powders for inhalation
Authors:K.A. Johnson
Absract:Innovations in biotechnology and recombinant techniques have led to a large increase in the number of macromolecule drugs developed over the last several years. These molecules are enabling new therapies for many previously untreated or poorly treated diseases. Due to poor oral absorption, most biopharmaceuticals are delivered by injection. Medical science, health care providers and consumers have been searching for alternative methods of delivering macromolecule drugs. Animal and human clinical studies have demonstrated that pharmacological doses of bioactive peptides and proteins pass, by a natural biological process, from the lungs into the bloodstream or local tissue. New macromolecule drugs are also being developed for treatment of respiratory diseases such as cystic fibrosis, adult and infant respiratory distress syndromes, asthma and emphysema. This paper reviews formulations for delivering therapeutic aerosols to the lungs. Particular emphasis will be placed on preparing fine powders containing macromolecule drugs.

pui:350178532
Title:Determination of insulin lispro in lispro dry powder inhalation by HPLC
Authors:Q.-L. GuJ.-C. WangQ. Zhang
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To establish a HPLC method for determining insulin lispro in insulin lispro powder for inhalation. METHODS: A separation was performed on a phenomenex ODS - C@sub_begin18@sub_end column(4.6 mm x 250 mm, 5 μm), and mobile phase was 0.1 mol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_endNaH@sub_begin2@sub_endPO@sub_begin4@sub_end-0.05 mol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_endNa@sub_begin2@sub_endSO@sub_begin4@sub_end-acetonitrile (pH 3.0) (35: 35: 30), The flow rate was 1.0 mL·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The detective wavelength was 214 nm. RESULTS: The calibration curve was linear in the concentration range of 0.5-100 mg·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end (r = 0.999 9). The low, middle and high average recovery was 99.1%, 100.1%, 99.7% and RSDs were 1.96%, 0.98%, 0.25%, respectively. CONCLUSION: This method was sensitive, convenient, accurate and reliable with good precision.

doi:10.1002/1097-0290(20010105)72:1<12::AID-BIT2>3.0.CO;2-Z
Title:The formation of plasmid DNA loaded pharmaceutical powders using supercritical fluid technology
Authors:M.C. D'AnjouA.J. Daugulis
Absract:The invention of novel drugs based on biological macromolecules requires the development of specialized formulation methods. Supercritical fluid technology offers the possibility to produce dry powder formulations suitable for inhalation or needle-free injection. In this article we describe the first application of a process involving supercritical carbon dioxide for the production of plasmid DNA-loaded particles. The technique of solution enhanced dispersion by supercritical fluids (SEDS) is used to coformulate the 6.9 kb plasmid pSVβ with mannitol as excipient. After initial experiments showed a high degradation of the plasmid during powder formation, a systematic investigation of the process revealed pH effects to be crucial for the recovery of intact DNA. The application of high-buffer concentration led to an increase of the recovered supercoiled proportion from 7% to 80%. © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

pui:14222157
Title:Patient errors and preference with regard to the use of a bronchodilating spray and fenoterol (Berotec®) powder
Authors:S. KornstadN.P. Boye
Absract:The investigation compared the errors using a bronchodilating spray and fenoterol powder for inhalation, it also determines the patient preference with regard to the preparation. Of 76 patients with obstructive lung disease, 15 (19.7%) used the spray incorrectly, relatively many of them were elderly women. The most important cause was coordination problems. Only four had difficulty with the powder preparation. Forty-two patients preferred the spray providing the effects of both agents were equally good. Twenty-six preferred the powder and eight had no preference. The preference for powder was relatively greater among elderly women and among these patients who had not previously used a spray. It is concluded that the majority of earlier users of spray prefer this form of treatment and that instruction in the correct use of a spray is essential. The powder preparation is particularly advantageous for patient with coordination problems of various types.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.10.034
Title:Impact of capsule type on aerodynamic performance of inhalation products: A case study using a formoterol-lactose binary or ternary blend
Authors:N. WauthozI. HenniaS. EcenarroK. Amighi
Absract:The aerodynamic performance of a dry powder for inhalation depends on the formulation and the dry powder inhaler (DPI). In the case of capsule-based DPIs, the capsule also plays a role in the powder aerosolisation and the dispersion of the micronized drug during the inhalation. This study evaluated the impact of gelatine capsules (Quali-G™ and Hard Gelatine Capsules for DPIs), cold-gelled hypromellose (HPMC) capsules (Quali-V@sup_begin®@sup_end-I and Vcaps@sup_begin®@sup_end) and thermal-gelled HPMC capsules (Vcaps@sup_begin®@sup_endPlus) from Qualicaps@sup_begin®@sup_end and Capsugel@sup_begin®@sup_end respectively, on the delivered dose (DD), fine particle dose (FPD), and capsule retention for formoterol-lactose binary and ternary blends. This study used a low resistance Axahaler@sup_begin®@sup_end DPI based on the RS01 design (Plastiape, Italy). Similar trends were observed with the different capsule types that packaged both dry powder formulations. The highest DD and FPD and the lowest formoterol capsule retention were observed with cold-gelled HPMC capsules such as Quali-V-I@sup_begin®@sup_end and Vcaps@sup_begin®@sup_end, without significant differences between these capsules (p > 0.05, one-way ANOVA with Newman-Keuls post-hoc test) for both dry powders. Therefore, the capsule composition and manufacturing process have an influence on aerodynamic performance. In addition, the ternary blend showed higher DDs and FPDs but also higher capsule retention in comparison to the binary blend.

pui:24058054
Title:Practical gamma labelling method for metered-dose inhalers and inhalation powders
Authors:J. ArppeM. Vidgren
Absract:In this study, a practical method for the gamma labelling of drug particles was developed, in order to facilitate comparative deposition studies of metered-dose inhalers and inhalation powders. In the labelling process of salbutamol, @sup_begin99m@sup_endtechnetium, a pure gamma emitter, was first eluted from a radionuclide generator in saline and then extracted in chloroform. Micronized salbutamol sulphate particles were suspended in chloroform and sprayed to a hot air stream. The airborne radioactive drug particles were filtered, and the aerosol and the powder formulations were prepared. According to the scanning electron micrographs, the size and shape of the labelled particles were similar to those of the untreated drug. In addition, a good correlation between the amount of drug and the radioactivity per delivered dose was obtained. The cascade impactor study showed that the drug and the radioactivity were distributed homogeneously within different particle size fractions. Thus the radiolabel acted as a marker for the presence of drug in the deposition study. When the aerodynamic behaviour of the labelled and the unlabelled preparations was compared, similar in vitro deposition patterns were obtained. The gamma camera study also indicated that the in vivo deposition of the labelled dosage forms could be reliably studied.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.121025
Title:Dry powder inhaler formulation comparison: Study of the role of particle deposition pattern and dissolution
Authors:B. Noriega-FernandesM. MalmlöfM. NowenwikP. GerdeM.L. CorvoE. Costa
Absract:The composition, morphology and dissolution profile of particles and micro-sized agglomerates delivered upon inhalation may have a significant impact on the product clinical effect. However, although several efforts are ongoing, a methodology that considers deposition structures and dissolution performance evaluation in a biorelevant set-up is not yet standardized. The goal of this work is to apply a collection and dissolution methodology able to discriminate dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations in terms of deposition structures and dissolution profile in vitro. Hence, Fluticasone Propionate (FP) engineered particles and formulated products (used as a case study) were collected employing a breath simulator and characterized regarding (i) aerodynamic particle size distribution; (ii) deposited microstructures; and (iii) dissolution/absorption profiles using the DissolvIt® bio-relevant dissolution equipment. The results indicated that the particle engineering technology had an impact on the generated and deposited microstructures, here associated to the differences on surface properties of jet milled and wet polished particles quantified by the specific surface area. Differences on surface properties modulate particle interactions, resulting in agglomerates of drug substance and excipient upon actuation with significant different morphologies, observed by microscope, as well as quantified by Marple cascade impactor. These observations allow for a further understanding of the DPI aerosolization and deposition mechanisms. The dissolution and absorption assessment indicates that the presence of lactose may accelerate the drug substance dissolution kinetics, and the FP dissolution can be significantly enhanced when formulated as a spray-dried dispersion particle. Ultimately, the results suggest dissolution testing can be an essential tool to both optimize an innovator DPI and de-risk generics development.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2017.1375
Title:Development of an Intelligent Spacer Data Logger System
Authors:C. O'CallaghanN.J. SmithP.W. BarryJ. Denyer
Absract:Background: Although delivery of drugs from pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) via spacer devices is widespread it cannot be assumed that patients take their medication as prescribed or use their spacer appropriately. We developed a Spacer Data Logger device to record patient adherence and whether patients had shaken the pMDI, actuated it soon after shaking, and inhaled a sufficient volume from it. Methods: We report an assessment of the Spacer Data Logger to measure and record that the pMDI was adequately shaken, the time to actuation, and the volume "inhaled" from the spacer up to 26 seconds after actuation. The effect of a delay in actuation following shaking on the dose available for inhalation from the spacer and the effect of a delay in extraction of aerosol from the spacer were assessed using different strengths of beclomethasone dipropionate (50 and 100 μg) and fluticasone propionate (50, 125 and 250 μg). Results: The volumes measured by the Spacer Data Logger were in close agreement with the reference volumes of four simulated breathing patterns. A delay between shaking and actuating the pMDI resulted in a significant increase in the dose available for inhalation after only 4 seconds for the 50 and 250 μg strengths of fluticasone propionate pMDIs (p = 0.004 and p < 0.001, respectively). A delay between actuation of the drug into the spacer and "inhalation" of aerosol from the spacer also resulted in a steady decline in the dose available from the spacer (p < 0.0001). Conclusions: These results confirmed the importance of using the pMDI spacer correctly by actuating directly after shaking and inhaling the aerosol from the spacer as soon after actuation as possible to optimize the dose available for inhalation. The Spacer Data Logger should be a useful tool to determine adherence to and "optimum" use of pMDI spacers in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

doi:10.1089/jam.2005.18.74
Title:Ventolin diskus and inspyril turbuhaler: An in vitro comparison
Authors:M.E.A.C. BroedersJ. MolemaP.K.P. BurnellH.T.M. Folgering
Absract:Dose delivery (total emitted dose, or TED) from dry powder Inhalers (DPIs), pulmonary deposition, and the biological effects depend on drug formulation and device and patient characteristics. The aim of this study was to measure, in vitro, the relationship between parameters of inhalation profiles recorded from patients, the TED and fine particle mass (FPM) of Diskus and Turbuhaler inhalers. Inhalation profiles (IPs) of 25 patients, a representative sample of a wide range of 1500 IPs generated by 10 stable asthmatics, 3 x 16 (mild/moderate/severe) COPD patients and 15 hospitalized patients with an exacerbation asthma or COPD, were selected for each device. These 25 IPs were input IPs for the Electronic Lung (a computer-driven inhalation simulator) to determine particle size distribution from Ventolin Diskus and Inspyril Turbuhaler. The TED and FPM of Diskus and FPM of Turbuhaler were affected by the peak inspiratory flow (PIF) and not by slope of the pressure-time curve, inhaled volume and inhalation time. This flow-dependency was more marked at lower flows (PIF < 40 L/min). Both the TED and FPM of Diskus were significantly higher as compared to (hose of the Turbuhaler [mean (SD) TED @sub_begin_diskus@sub_end (%label claim) 83.5 (13.9) vs. TED@sub_begin_turbuhaler@sub_end (72.5 (11.1) (p = 0.004), FPM@sub_begin_diskus@sub_end (%label claim) 36.8 (9.8) vs FPM@sub_begin_turbuhaler@sub_end (28.7 (7.7) (p < 0.05)]. The TED and FPM of Diskus and FPM of Turbuhaler were affected by PIF, the flow-dependency being greater at PIF values below 40 L/min. Lower PIFs occurred more often when using Turbuhaler than Diskus, since Turbuhaler have a higher resistivity, requires substantially higher pressure in order to generate the same flow as Diskus. TED, dose consistency and the FPM were higher for Diskus as compared to Turbuhaler. The flow dependency of TED and FPM was substantially influenced by inhalation profiles when not only profiles of the usual outpatient population were included but also the real outliers from exacerbated patients. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1080/10717544.2018.1469688
Title:Inhalation delivery of topotecan is superior to intravenous exposure for suppressing lung cancer in a preclinical model
Authors:P.J. KuehlM.J. GrimesD. DuboseM. BurkeD.A. RevelliA.P. GigliottiS.A. BelinskyM. Tessema
Absract:Intravenous (IV) topotecan is approved for the treatment of various malignancies including lung cancer but its clinical use is greatly undermined by severe hematopoietic toxicity. We hypothesized that inhalation delivery of topotecan would increase local exposure and efficacy against lung cancer while reducing systemic exposure and toxicity. These hypotheses were tested in a preclinical setting using a novel inhalable formulation of topotecan against the standard IV dose. Respirable dry-powder of topotecan was manufactured through spray-drying technology and the pharmacokinetics of 0.14 and 0.79mg/kg inhalation doses were compared with 0.7 mg/kg IV dose. The efficacy of four weekly treatments with 1 mg/kg inhaled vs. 2 mg/kg IV topotecan were compared to untreated control using an established orthotopic lung cancer model for a fast (H1975) and moderately growing (A549) human lung tumors in the nude rat. Inhalation delivery increased topotecan exposure of lung tissue by approximately 30- fold, lung and plasma half-life by 5- and 4-folds, respectively, and reduced the maximum plasma concentration by 2-fold than the comparable IV dose. Inhaled topotecan improved the survival of rats with the fast-growing lung tumors from 7 to 80% and reduced the tumor burden of the moderatelygrowing lung tumors over 5- and 10-folds, respectively, than the 2-times higher IV topotecan and untreated control (p<.00001). These results indicate that inhalation delivery increases topotecan exposure of lung tissue and improves its efficacy against lung cancer while also lowering the effective dose and maximum systemic concentration that is responsible for its dose-limiting toxicity.

doi:10.1016/S0091-6749(98)70019-3
Title:Efficacy and safety of budesonide inhalation suspension (Pulmicort Respules) in young children with inhaled steroid-dependent, persistent asthma
Authors:G. ShapiroL. MendelsonM.J. KraemerM. Cruz-RiveraK. Walton-BowenJ.A. Smith
Absract:Background: Inhaled glucocorticosteroids are indicated for the treatment of persistent asthma; however, many young children are unable to effectively use currently available inhalers. Objective: We sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 3 different twice daily doses of budesonide inhalation suspension (Pulmicort Respules) in inhaled steroid-dependent asthmatic children. Methods: This was a 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo- controlled, parallel-group study involving 178 children (age range, 4 to 8 years) at 17 centers in the United States. Budesonide inhalation suspension doses of 0.25 mg, 0.50 mg, or 1.0 mg twice daily were administered by means of a jet nebulizer and air compressor system. Efficacy was assessed by recording at home nighttime and daytime asthma symptom scores, use of rescue medication, pulmonary function tests, and treatment discontinuation because of worsening symptoms. Safety was assessed by reported adverse events and changes in baseline and adrenocorticotrophic hormone-stimulated plasma cortisol levels in a subset of patients. Results: Baseline demographics, symptom scores, and pulmonary function data were similar across treatment groups. All doses of budesonide inhalation suspension were superior to placebo in improving nighttime and daytime asthma symptom scores (P ≤ .026), reducing use of breakthrough medication (P ≤ .032), and improving morning peak expiratory flow (P ≤ .030). The number of dropouts because of worsening asthma was also significantly fewer in the budesonide groups (P ≤ .015). There were no differences between doses of budesonide. Adverse events and basal and adrenocorticotrophic hormone-stimulated cortisol responses were not different between budesonide and placebo groups. Conclusion: Budesonide inhalation suspension, 0.25 mg, 0.50 mg, and 1.0 mg twice daily, is an effective and safe treatment for young children with inhaled steroid- dependent, persistent asthma.

doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aan6205
Title:Inhalation of peptide-loaded nanoparticles improves heart failure
Authors:M. MiragoliP. CeriottiM. IafiscoM. VacchianoN. SalvaraniA. AlognaP. CarulloG.B. Ramirez-RodríguezT. PatrícioL. Degli EspostiF. RossiF. RavanettiS. PinelliR. AlinoviM. ErreniS. RossiG. CondorelliH. PostA. TampieriD. Catalucci
Absract:Peptides are highly selective and efficacious for the treatment of cardiovascular and other diseases. However, it is currently not possible to administer peptides for cardiac-targeting therapy via a noninvasive procedure, thus representing scientific and technological challenges. We demonstrate that inhalation of small (<50 nm in diameter) biocompatible and biodegradable calcium phosphate nanoparticles (CaPs) allows for rapid translocation of CaPs from the pulmonary tree to the bloodstream and to the myocardium, where their cargo is quickly released. Treatment of a rodent model of diabetic cardiomyopathy by inhalation of CaPs loaded with a therapeutic mimetic peptide that we previously demonstrated to improve myocardial contraction resulted in restoration of cardiac function. Translation to a porcine large animal model provides evidence that inhalation of a peptide-loaded CaP formulation is an effective method of targeted administration to the heart. Together, these results demonstrate that inhalation of biocompatible tailored peptide nanocarriers represents a pioneering approach for the pharmacological treatment of heart failure.

doi:10.4172/jbb.1000085
Title:Differences in relative bioavailability (BA) of inhalation insulin determined using insulin and glucose levels following subcutaneous and inhalation administration in humans
Authors:C.S. CookP.W. ValaitisA. BruggerT. HeiseJ. GassL. AndersonJ. TroegerS. WhiteU. EckersL. NosekK. RaveL. Heinemann
Absract:BA may be determined using both plasma concentrations of a drug (pharmacokinetic parameters) and its pharmacological effects (pharmacodynamic parameters). However, the resulting assessments of BA can be substantially different. In a relative BA study (N=30) 10 IU (0.35 mg) Actrapid@sup_begin®@sup_end was administered subcutaneously with comparison to a 6.5 mg dose of recombinant human insulin inhalation powder (RHIIP) administered using the Cyclohaler@sup_beginTM@sup_end dry powder inhaler under euglycemic glucose clamp conditions. Relative BA following the inhalation administration compared with the subcutaneous dose was 12.0±1.8% and 6.3±0.6% when determined using baseline-adjusted insulin and glucose infusion rate (GIR), respectively. To explain the observed differences in BA, a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic model was developed and BAs were predicted at different doses of inhalation insulin with the fixed 10 IU subcutaneous dose. BA predicted for 3.25 mg inhaled insulin and GIR were 12% and 7.5%, respectively. When the potency of the two insulin formulations was compared, it was shown that Actrapid@sup_begin®@sup_end was approximately 1.4 times greater than the RHIIP formulation. Furthermore, when AUC values for GIR were normalized based on potency BA predicted for a 3.25 mg RHIIP dose was approximately 11%. Thus, the difference in BA dependent upon insulin and glucose could be explained by the non-linear pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship and potency difference between RHIIP and Actrapid@sup_begin®@sup_end.© 2011 Jia-Gen W, et al.

doi:10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.03.027
Title:Essential oil based polymeric patch development and evaluating its repellent activity against mosquitoes
Authors:P. ChattopadhyayS. DhimanS. BorahB. RabhaA.K. ChaurasiaV. Veer
Absract:Essential oil based insect repellents are environment friendly and provide dependable personal protection against the bites of mosquitoes and other blood-sucking insects. In the present study, optimized mixture of three essential oils was embedded into the ethylcellulose (EC) and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP K-30) polymers to develop essential oils based patch type mosquito repellent formulation. The developed formulation was characterized for various physico-chemical properties, oil release efficiency and essential oil-polymer interaction. Repellent activity of the formulation was evaluated against Ae. (S) albopictus mosquitoes and compared with commercially available synthetic insecticide based mosquito repellent cream Odomos® in the laboratory. The developed patches were 100% flat and there was no interaction between oil components and the excipients. Patches were smooth, homogenous and provided excellent mosquito repellent activity comparable to Odomos® under laboratory condition. Morphological and physico-chemical characterization indicated that the formulation was stable and suitable with the polymeric combination. The patch formulation did not show any inhalation toxicity in experimental Wistar rat. The repellent patches developed and evaluated currently, may provide a suitable, eco-friendly, acceptable and safe alternative to the existing synthetic repellent formulations for achieving protection against mosquitoes.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2004.02.007
Title:Insulin microcrystal suspension as a long-acting formulation for pulmonary delivery
Authors:J.-H. KwonB.-H. LeeJ.-J. LeeC.-W. Kim
Absract:Pulmonary delivery provides the most promising non-parenteral route of insulin administration. Insulin was used as a model protein to demonstrate the feasibility of using protein crystals for the pulmonary delivery of a sustained-release protein drug formulation. Insulin microcrystals with a mean diameter of 3 μm were prepared using a seed zone method. The yield of crystallization was very high (95.8±0.97%), and the microcrystals were recovered with high efficiency (>98%) by centrifugation. Morphological examination using scanning electron microphotography showed the microcrystals to be of a homogeneous rhombohedral shape, with some rhombus forms, without aggregates. After the administration of 32 U/kg of the microcrystal suspension to STZ-induced diabetic SD rats by intratracheal instillation, the blood glucose levels were reduced and hypoglycemia was prolonged over 13 h, as compared to the insulin solution. The percent minimum reductions of the blood glucose concentration (% MRBG) produced by the microcrystal suspension and insulin solution reached 36.5 and 37.2%, respectively, of the initial level, and the percent total reductions in blood glucose (% TRBG@sub_begin13h@sub_end) were 34.4 and 25.0%, respectively. In the case of inhalation using a sieve-type ultrasonic nebulizer, the % MRBG produced by the microcrystal suspension and insulin solution were 21.7 and 26.3%, respectively, of the initial level, and the % TRBG@sub_begin13h@sub_end were 66.7 and 58.4%, respectively. However, the hypoglycemic effects of the microcrystal suspension were prolonged over 7 h, which compares favorably with the insulin solution (P<0.05 by unpaired t-test). These results could be attributed to the sustained-release of insulin from the microcrystals, which were deposited widely throughout the entire lung. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13050689
Title:Stability and in vitro aerodynamic studies of inhalation powders containing ciprofloxacin hydrochloride applying different dpi capsule types
Authors:E. BenkeP. VargaP. Szabó-RévészR. Ambrus
Absract:In the case of capsule-based dry powder inhalation systems (DPIs), the selection of the appropriate capsule is important. The use of gelatin, gelatin-PEG, and HPMC capsules has become widespread in marketed capsule-based DPIs. We aimed to perform a stability test according to the ICH guideline in the above-mentioned three capsule types. The results of the novel combined formulated microcomposite were more favorable than those of the carrier-free formulation for all capsule types. The use of HPMC capsules results in the greatest stability and thus the best in vitro aerodynamic results for both DPI powders after six months. This can be explained by the fact that the residual solvent content (RSC) of the capsules differs. Under the applied conditions the RSC of the HPMC capsule decreased the least and remained within the optimal range, thus becoming less fragmented, which was reflected in the RSC, structure and morphology of the particles, as well as in the in vitro aerodynamic results (there was a difference of approximately 10% in the lung deposition results). During pharmaceutical dosage form developments, emphasis should be placed in the case of DPIs on determining which capsule type will be used for specific formulations.

pui:622038384
Title:Study of physicochemical compatibility of inhalation grade active ingredients with propellant HFA 134a by FTIR
Authors:V.P. MusaleS.C. JagdaleP. Shah
Absract:The studies of drug-excipient compatibility represent an important phase in the preformulation stage of the development of all dosage forms. The purpose of present study to identify the physicochemical compatibility of hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellant 134a with inhalation active ingredients viz; Salmeterol Xinafoate, Fluticasone Propionate, Anhydrous Beclometasone Dipropionate and Salbutamol Sulfate by Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrophotometer (FTIR) method of analysis. The potential physical and chemical interactions between inhalation drugs and suspending agents like Propellant 134a can affect the chemical, physical properties and stability of the Pressurized Metered Dose Inhalers. The present work contains a basic mode of drug degradation, mechanism of drug-propellant interaction like physical, chemical and biopharmaceutical. Once the type of interaction is determined we can take further steps to improve the stability of pressurized metered dose inhalers suspension formulations. In this study report FTIR studies were performed and major peaks were determined by the (FTIR Bruker) will show band shift and broadening compared to the spectra of pure drug. IR spectra’s of Salmeterol Xinafoate, Fluticasone Propionate, and Anhydrous Beclometasone Dipropionate and Salbutamol Sulfate bands were found appropriate wavelength and this confirms the identity of individual API.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.01.007
Title:Adhesion and redistribution of salmeterol xinafoate particles in sugar-based mixtures for inhalation
Authors:H. AdiI. LarsonP.J. Stewart
Absract:The aim of this study was to evaluate coarse and fine sugars as potential alternative excipients in dry powder inhalation formulations and to develop a greater understanding of the key interactions between the particulate species in these mixtures. Interactive mixtures composed of salmeterol xinafoate (SX) and different type of sugars (lactose, glucose, mannitol and sorbitol) were prepared using validated laboratory scale mixing. The sugars and SX were characterised by laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy and loss on drying method. Deposition of SX was measured using a twin-stage impinger and analysed using validated HPLC method (r@sup_begin2@sup_end = 1.0, CV = 0.4-1.0%). Good correlation existed between the fine particle fraction (FPF) of SX and both the adhesion force and the moisture content. The addition of 10% fine sugars to produce ternary mixtures (i.e. SX, coarse and fine sugars) generally increased dispersion, with the addition of fine glucose > fine mannitol > fine lactose > fine sorbitol. The dispersion of SX showed a reciprocal relationship with the moisture content of the sugars with glucose showing the greatest and sorbitol showing the lowest extent of SX dispersion. The study clearly demonstrated that strong SX adhesion to coarse sugars reduced the extent of dispersion and that surface detachment of the SX and fine sugar from the coarse sugar carrier was important in the dispersion process. © 2007.

doi:10.1089/jam.1997.10.147
Title:Aerosolized amiloride: Dose effect on nasal bioelectric properties, pharmacokinetics, and effect on sputum expectoration in patients with cystic fibrosis
Authors:T. HofmannI. SenierP. BittnerG. HülsH.-J. SchwandtH. Lindemann
Absract:Aerosolized amiloride normalizes the excessive sodium absorption across cystic fibrosis (CF) respiratory epithelium. The aims of this study were to assess the dose-effect relationship and the duration for which amiloride inhibits Na@sup_begin+@sup_end transport, to determine acute and chronic pharmacokinetics, and to test the effect of acute aerosolized amiloride on the amount of sputum expectorated. The effect of inhaled amiloride was assessed principally by nasal potential difference (PD) measurements. Amiloride serum levels were measured in 23 patients after inhalation of different doses of aerosolized amiloride. Twenty CF patients inhaled amiloride (10@sup_begin-3@sup_end M) or a placebo in a double-blinded, randomized order, and sputum production was quantitated. The results of this study showed that maximal initial PD inhibition was achieved by 6 x 10@sup_begin-3@sup_end M of amiloride. The duration of inhibition of PD (effective time until return to 50% ΔPD [ET@sub_begin50@sub_end] after nasal administration) was dose dependent (10@sup_begin-3@sup_end M, 39 ± 0.8 minutes; 10@sup_begin-2@sup_end M; 133 ± 14 minutes). Amiloride serum levels were below 2.5 ng/ml in 20 of 28 patients; levels were above 5 ng/ml only within 4 hours after high dose inhalation (10@sup_begin-2@sup_end M). In the double-blinded, crossover study, more sputum was expectorated after amiloride inhalation as compared with that after a placebo (P < 0.05). In conclusion, the bioelectric effects of amiloride and serum levels after inhalation are dose dependent, and amiloride is effective at inducing sputum expectoration in CF.

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9082-6
Title:Agglomerate strength and dispersion of salmeterol xinafoate from powder mixtures for inhalation
Authors:H. AdiI. LarsonH. ChiouP. YoungD. TrainiP. Stewart
Absract:Purpose. The study investigated the role of agglomeration and the effect of fine lactose size on the dispersion of salmeterol xinafoate (SX) from SX-lactose mixtures for inhalation. Methods. Particle size distributions were characterised by Malvern Mastersizer S, Aerosizer and Spraytec, and imaging conducted by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Inter-particulate adhesion was quantified by atomic force microscopy. Deposition of SX was measured using a twin stage impinger. SX was analysed using validated high-performance liquid chromatography method (r @sup_begin2@sup_end=1.0, CV=0.4-1.0%). Results. Addition of fine lactose with a volume median diameter (VMD) of 7.9 μm to a SX-lactose carrier and carrier-free mixture resulted in significantly better dispersion (16.8% for 20% added fine lactose) than fractions with VMD of 3.0, 17.7 and 33.3 μm (less than 9.1% for 20% fine lactose). Using the carrier-free mixtures, particle sizing of the aerosol cloud using the Spraytec, coupled with the application of the Aerosizer using differing dispersion energies and SEMs of the samples, indicated that an open packed, agglomerate structure improved SX dispersion. The highest extent of SX dispersion occurred when SX and fine lactose were detached from the surface, usually in the form of loose agglomerates. Conclusions. The outcomes of this research demonstrated how agglomerate structure influenced dispersion and the key role of fine lactose particle size in SX dispersion from mixtures for inhalation. © 2006 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Development of HFA-152A as a sustainable PMDI propellant
Authors:S. Corr
Absract:In looking to reduce the environmental impact of inhalation medicine delivery, one possible route is to develop a pressurises metered dose inhaler (pMDI) system that maintains all of the therapeutic advantages of the pMDI platform but which has a competitive carbon footprint to alternative technologies, particularly dry powder inhalers (DPI). Whilst carbon footprint is clearly important, it should be recognised that it is only one of several factors that contribute to the acceptability and sustainability of a delivery platform. These factors include patient safety in use and satisfactory formulation performance with a range of common actives and excipients across a range of metrics. Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) was used to compare the environmental impacts, particularly the carbon footprint, of a pMDI system using a new candidate propellant (HFA-152a (1,1,-difluoroethane)) with that of the equivalent HFA-134a pMDI and with a representative Diskus®-type dry powder inhaler (DPI)[1]. This cradle-to-grave LCA study was conducted according to ISO 14040/14044 methodology and shows that the carbon footprint of an HFA-152a pMDI is reduced by >90% compared to an equivalent HFA-134a MDI and is essentially equivalent to that of the DPI device. Although the program is still in progress, results to date from an HFA-152a inhalation safety program show great promise with propellant-only clinical trials already planned. In some cases, formulations based on HFA-152a show a number of potentially valuable performance advantages, particularly with respect to improved chemical stability.

doi:10.1016/j.rmr.2010.04.004
Title:Inhaled insulin: A model for pulmonary systemic absorption?
Authors:M.-H. BecqueminJ.-P. Chaumuzeau
Absract:The European Union recently approved a form of insulin intended to be inhaled. This innovative presentation has the potential to partially or completely replace the injections and thus facilitate starting insulin therapy which is considered with apprehension and often differed. On this occasion, we reviewed the issues raised by this pulmonary route for systemic absorption (anatomical and cytological limits, cellular mechanisms, relevant physical parameters, facilitating chemical cofactors, role of tobacco smoking and of common respiratory diseases). The pharmacokinetics of inhaled and injectable insulins are comparable, apart from an appreciably faster absorption of the former, and both show the same intra-individual variability. The total bioavailability is definitely lower with the inhaled route but is notably increased in smokers. These characteristics can vary according to the inhalation system used. A frequent induced cough, the increase in circulating anti-insulin antibodies, and a potentially higher cost are not really determining obstacles. The indications will have to be clearly specified and the long-term innocuousness of repeated inhalation of such a mitogen, especially in children and former smokers, remains to be fully proven. © 2010 SPLF.

doi:10.1186/s40248-017-0092-5
Title:Recent advances in capsule-based dry powder inhaler technology
Authors:F. LavoriniM. PistolesiO.S. Usmani
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is currently the focus of accelerated research and development because of the potential to produce maximum therapeutic benefit to patients by directly targeting drug to the site of pathology in the lungs. Among the available delivery options, the dry powder inhaler (DPI) is the preferred device for the treatment of an increasingly diverse range of diseases. However, because drug delivery from a DPI involves a complex interaction between the device and the patient, the engineering development of this medical technology is proving to be a great challenge. Development of DPI systems that target the delivery of fine drug particles to the deeper airways in the lungs using a combination of improved drug formulations and enhanced delivery device technologies means that each of these factors contributes to overall performance of the aerosol system. There are a large range of devices that are currently available, or under development, for clinical use, however no individual device shows superior clinical efficacy. A major concern that is very relevant in day-to-day clinical practice is the inter- and intra-patient variability of the drug dosage delivered to the deep lungs from the inhalation devices, where the extent of variability depends on the drug formulation, the device design, and the patient’s inhalation profile. This variability may result in under-dosing of drug to the patient and potential loss of pharmacological efficacy. This article reviews recent advances in capsule-based DPI technology and the introduction of the ‘disposable’ DPI device.

doi:10.1016/j.colsurfa.2015.02.017
Title:Dynamic tensiometry studies on interactions of novel therapeutic inhalable powders with model pulmonary surfactant at the air-water interface
Authors:K. Kramek-RomanowskaM. OdziomekT.R. Sosnowski
Absract:Assessing the influence of therapeutic formulations on biophysical properties of lung surfactant is an essential step in optimal design of pharmaceutical products intended for inhalation. In the present study, maximum bubble pressure (MBP) tensiometry was employed to evaluate the physicochemical impact of several novel multifunctional composite powders, suitable for drug delivery by inhalation, on the dynamic activity of model pulmonary surfactant at the air-water interface. Bi- and tri-component powders consisted of mannitol or dextran, N-acetylcysteine and disodium cromoglycate were obtained by spray drying technique and subsequently their interaction with modified bovine surfactant extract (Survanta) were analysed. Several dynamic surface tension parameters were investigated as measures of alteration of surface activity in Survanta-powder solutions. All discussed powders demonstrated significant impact on surface activity of Survanta solution, either positive or negative, depending on powders composition and concentration. Although it is problematic to explain all observed effects in the framework of known mechanisms, the present study provides a new insight into the possible changes in the dynamic interfacial behaviour of pulmonary surfactant after therapeutic interventions. Obtained results may be applied during development of more effective and safe medical products suitable for drug delivery by inhalation.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.04.004
Title:Technological and practical challenges of dry powder inhalers and formulations
Authors:M. HoppentochtP. HagedoornH.W. FrijlinkA.H. de Boer
Absract:In the 50 years following the introduction of the first dry powder inhaler to the market, several developments have occurred. Multiple-unit dose and multi-dose devices have been introduced, but first generation capsule inhalers are still widely used for new formulations. Many new particle engineering techniques have been developed and considerable effort has been put in understanding the mechanisms that control particle interaction and powder dispersion during inhalation. Yet, several misconceptions about optimal inhaler performance manage to survive in modern literature. It is, for example still widely believed that a flow rate independent fine particle fraction contributes to an inhalation performance independent therapy, that dry powder inhalers perform best at 4. kPa (or 60. L/min) and that a high resistance device cannot be operated correctly by patients with reduced lung function. Nevertheless, there seems to be a great future for dry powder inhalation. Many new areas of interest for dry powder inhalation are explored and with the assistance of new techniques like computational fluid dynamics and emerging particle engineering technologies, this is likely to result in a new generation of inhaler devices and formulations, that will enable the introduction of new therapies based on inhaled medicines.

doi:10.1016/S0169-409X(97)00507-3
Title:Characterisation of small changes in the physical properties of powders of significance for dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:G. Buckton
Absract:In this paper we address the following issue: Why is surface characterisation important? All pharmaceutical processes (with the exception of mixing two gasses) involve interfacial contact, and, consequently, it is not surprising that surface energetics play an important role in determining the outcome of all events. For a dry powder inhaler system interfacial considerations may relate to drug-drug interactions (cohesion), drug-carrier or drug-device interactions (adhesion) and deaggregation phenomena during use. As all adhesive and cohesive interactions are interfacial phenomena it is reasonable to accept that the basis of interactions within dry powder inhalers is through interfacial forces, which can be divided into apolar (Lifshitz-van der Waals) and polar (electron donor-electron acceptor) components. Further to this it can be accepted that changes in the nature of any surface within the product (the drug, the carrier or the container) can be expected to result in changes in the surface interactions involving that phase. Thus, in essence, the success or failure of a formulated inhalation device is dependent upon the nature of the surface of the materials used, and, as such, measurement of these surfaces becomes of paramount importance. In this review comparatively little effort will be taken to prove the dominant role of surface energetics in inhalation products; this is primarily because much of the proof which exists is held as confidential by manufacturers. Consequently, this review will concentrate on surface characterisation of powders with respect to determination of surface energies and changes in solid state properties.

doi:10.1007/s40199-019-00250-x
Title:A new hypothesis to investigate bioequivalence of pharmaceutical inhalation products
Authors:M. KhoubnasabjafariE. RahimpourM. SaminiV. Jouyban-GharamalekiL. ChenD. ChenH.-K. ChanA. Jouyban
Absract:Background: This short communication reports a new hypothesis regarding bioequivalence of inhalation products which can potentially provide a reliable means to compare pharmaceutical aerosol formulations and inhalers. Methods: Available methods regarding the bioequivalence studies, inhaled drugs and advantages of exhaled breath condensate (EBC) samples were reviewed to develop this hypothesis. Results: It is postulated that two inhalation products providing the same drug concentrations in airway lining fluid (ALF) could be considered bioequivalent. The use of EBC tests which reflect ALF composition can be recommended as an alternative to current testing methods for consideration of bioequivalence. Conclusion: The methods based on EBC analysis can potentially be applied to bioequivalence study of inhalation products and could reflect drug concentration in ALF. However, experimental studies would be necessary to support or refute this hypothesis on the novel application of EBC to bioequivalence in the future. [Figure not available: see fulltext.].

doi:10.1007/s40267-018-0513-3
Title:Fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol dry-powder inhaler in COPD: a profile of its use in the EU
Authors:Y.Y. SyedK.A. Lyseng-Williamson
Absract:Fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol (Trelegy@sup_beginTM@sup_end), an orally inhaled dry powder formulation administered via the Ellipta@sup_begin®@sup_end device, is the first fixed-dose, single-inhalation, once-daily triple therapy approved for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It combines three major classes of COPD medications, namely an inhaled corticosteroid (fluticasone furoate), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (umeclidinium) and a long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonist (vilanterol), in a single inhaler. The triple therapy is effective and well tolerated in patients with advanced COPD. In the FULFIL trial, furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol provided significant and sustained improvements in lung function and health-related quality of life, as well as reducing the risk of COPD exacerbation and improving other patient-reported outcomes, relative to twice-daily budesonide/formoterol. In a non-inferiority trial, fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol administered using a single Ellipta@sup_begin®@sup_end inhaler was noninferior to the same nominal dosages of furoate/vilanterol + umeclidinium administered using two Ellipta@sup_begin®@sup_end inhalers with respect to changes in lung function, with comparable between-treatment improvements in other endpoints. Fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol offers the convenience of a single-inhalation once-daily treatment, which may potentially reduce inhalation errors and improve treatment adherence in some patients.

doi:10.3109/02770900009055437
Title:Long-term safety of a non-chlorofluorocarbon-containing triamcinolone acetonide inhalation aerosol in patients with asthma
Authors:H.S. NelsonR.E. KaneJ. PetilloD. Banerji
Absract:In response to environmental concerns regarding chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), two new triamcinolone acetonide (TAA) inhalation aerosol (Azmacort Inhalation Aerosol) formulations have been developed using a more environmentally favorable propellant, HFA-134a (1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane). This multicenter, open-label study evaluated the safety of switching asthma patients from TAACFC to one of two TAA-HFA formulations. After a 2- or 4-week baseline period during which patients received only CFC-containing TAA Inhaler, 552 patients were randomized to receive TAA-HFA 75 or 225 μg for 6 or 12 months. A total of 493 patients completed treatment. Seven patients discontinued because of adverse events and two because of ineffective asthma control. The incidence of adverse events was similar in the two treatment groups, and most events were mild to moderate in severity and were not considered related to study medication. No clinically relevant suppression of the hypophyseal-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis was observed. Pulmonary function tests were not adversely affected by use of either study medication, and improvements were noted in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and forced expiratory flow between 25% and 75% of forced vital capacity (FEF(25%- 75%)) throughout the course of treatment. This study confirms that TAA-HFA provides effective, long-term asthma control and can safely be substituted for the currently marketed CFC-containing TAA product.

doi:10.13220/j.cnki.jipr.2014.02.015
Title:Preparation of oridonin dry powder for inhalation and its therapeutic effect on acute lung injury of rats
Authors:X.-Q. XiangL.-N. DuM. LiX. FengY.-G. Jin
Absract:Objective: To prepare the dry powder of oridonin for inhalation and to investigate its pharmacodynamics on rat acute lung injury(ALI). Methods: Oridonin nanosuspensions were prepared using the precipitation method, and then freeze-dried to obtain the dry powder with glucose, sucrose, lactose or mannitol as the lyophilization protectants. The rat ALI model was established by inhaling hydrochloric acid. The therapeutic effect of oridonin was explored on the model. Results: The oridonin nanosuspensions were small to 100 nm in size and the polydispersing index was 0.115. The fluidity, containing mannitol was good and the deposition rate in effective parts of the dry powder was 31.55%. The therapeutic effect of oridonin dry powder on the ALI model was good according to the anatomy and pathology. Conclusion: Oridonin dry powder might be a promising formulation for the treatment of ALI.

doi:10.14227/DT170210P6
Title:Optimization of an in vitro dissolution test method for inhalation formulations
Authors:Y.-J. SonM. HorngM. CopleyJ.T. McConville
Absract:The aim of this research project was to investigate a potential standardized test method to characterize the dissolution properties of numerous formulation types available for pulmonary delivery. A commercially available dissolution tester was adapted for use as a testing apparatus by the incorporation of a membrane-containing holder. The holder was designed to enclose previously air-classified formulations so that they could be uniformly tested in the dissolution apparatus. Dissolution procedures, the apparatus, dose collection, medium, and test conditions were developed relying on USP General Chapter <1092>. To collect an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) fraction from the devices for subsequent dissolution studies, aerodynamic particle separation on the membrane holder was achieved using the Next Generation Impactor (NGI) for two commercially available products, Ventolin HFA and Pulmicort Flexhaler. The dissolution profiles of budesonide (BD) and albuterol sulfate (AS) were successfully estimated by analyzing the amount of drug released from the membrane holder. This dissolution method may be applied to quality control studies for various inhalation products. In particular, the in vitro dissolution profiles of the drugs may provide an estimate of their dispersion characteristics, which directly relate to the device or aerosol performances.

doi:10.1208/s12249-009-9371-6
Title:Inhalation of an ethanol-based zileuton formulation provides a reduction of pulmonary adenomas in the A/J mouse model
Authors:K.L. KarlageE. MogalianA. JensenP.B. Myrdal
Absract:Potential efficacy of zileuton, a 5-LOX inhibitor, was evaluated for the reduction of pulmonary adenomas in the A/J murine model when administered via nose-only inhalation. Development of pulmonary adenomas was induced with benzo(a)pyrene. Animals were treated with a zileuton solution (5 mg/mL in 85:15 ethanol/water) either twice weekly or five times a week via nose-only inhalation; The placebo solution (85:15 EtOH/H@sub_begin2@sub_endO, no active) was also evaluated. Dose delivered was calculated to be 1.2 mg/kg per exposure for each zileuton group. After 20 weeks of treatment, surface tumors were enumerated and histologically assessed. A significant reduction in tumor count was noted for both the twice weekly administration (40%) and the five times a week administration (59%). The data also showed a significant reduction for the group, which received the placebo (approximately 58%). The treatment groups were also found to have an impact on the histological stages of adenoma development. © 2009 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.2745/dds.31.432
Title:Progress of DDS technology via transpulmonary route: A mini review about inhalable insulin
Authors:T. TagamiT. Ozeki
Absract:Novel technology to deliver functional proteins as biopharmaceutical via pulmonary route has been developing because the methodology is applicable for relatively large molecules. In this review, inhalable insulin products will be introduced. Afrezza ® (owned by MannKind) is an insulin dry-powder-inhaler formulation approved by US FDA in 2014. A technique to prepare fine particles by using unique medical additive which was called as Technosphere, allowed the product to obtain not only narrow particles distribution which was useful to deliver the particles into alveolar region but also fast solubility and absorption after the accumulation in alveolar. As Afrezza is classified as ultra-rapid-acting insulin formulation, it is administered just before meal to prevent the increase of prandial blood sugar. Afrezza can induce cough which is a typical side effect of powder type of inhalation formulation and has limitation against the COPD and asthma patients. Dance-501 (owned by Dance Biopharm) is an insulin liquid aerosol formulation and is expecting for future trial (completed Phase 2). It is estimated that inhalation formulation of biopharmaceutical including insulin will be promising formulation as patient-friendly formulation.

doi:10.1517/17425247.3.1.163
Title:The 15th International Society of Aerosols in Medicine Congress. Perth, Australia, 14-18 March 2005
Authors:H.-K. ChanH. ChiouP. Kwok
Absract:This international meeting brought together ∼ 250 delegates from the pharmaceutical industry, academia, hospitals and government agencies, to discuss the latest research and development on areas related to inhalation aerosols. Fundamental science and applied research encompassing both the biological and physicochemical aspects were presented. There was a wide range of topics covered, from immune modulation to pharmaceutical regulatory issues, including aerosol clearance; industry innovations; aerosols and in utero effects; technical advances in imaging; inhalation catastrophes; as well as recent advances and future directions in aerosol delivery systems. This biennial congress has provided an excellent forum for stimulating fruitful discussion of aerosols in medicine. © 2006 Ashley Publications.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.12.016
Title:Nebulization of mycophenolate mofetil inhalation suspension in rats: Comparison with oral and pulmonary administration of Cellcept@sup_begin®@sup_end
Authors:H.L. DugasJ.I. PetersR.O. Williams III
Absract:In this study, a suspension of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) suitable for inhalation was developed using the emulsion template process and characterized for particle size and aerosolization performance. To evaluate the benefits of this suspension over a solution, the IV Cellcept@sup_begin®@sup_end solution was also characterized in vitro. Both formulations exhibited excellent aerosolization performance. The aerodynamic diameters for the solution and the suspension were within the respirable range (below 5 μm) and their fine particle doses were nearly equivalent, suggesting the same drug exposure during in vivo experiments. Single dose 24-h pharmacokinetic studies following inhalation of the formulations and oral administration of oral Cellcept @sup_begin®@sup_end were performed in rats. Following oral administration, MMF was completely and rapidly metabolized into its active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA) and partial metabolism was observed following pulmonary administration. Inhaled MMF suspension displayed more favorable pharmacokinetics than inhaled IV Cellcept@sup_begin®@sup_end solution, but the MPA drug levels in each compartment were much lower than those obtained with oral Cellcept@sup_begin®@sup_end. The dose normalized MPA levels in the lung, thymus gland and plasma following inhalation of the MMF suspension with the oral control suggested that pulmonary delivery of a MMF suspension could be beneficial in preventing lung allograft rejection. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13070941
Title:Water uptake by evaporating pmdi aerosol prior to inhalation affects both regional and total deposition in the respiratory system
Authors:V. Legh-LandA.E. HaddrellD. LewisD. MurnaneJ.P. Reid
Absract:As pulmonary drug deposition is a function of aerosol particle size distribution, it is critical that the dynamics of particle formation and maturation in pMDI sprays in the interim between generation and inhalation are fully understood. This paper presents an approach to measure the evaporative and condensational fluxes of volatile components and water from and to solution pMDI droplets following generation using a novel technique referred to as the Single Particle Electrodynamic Lung (SPEL). In doing so, evaporating aerosol droplets are shown capable of acting as condensation nuclei for water. Indeed, we show that the rapid vaporisation of volatile components from a volatile droplet is directly correlated to the volume of water taken up by condensation. Furthermore, a significant volume of water is shown to condense on droplets of a model pMDI formulation (hydrofluoroalkane (HFA), ethanol and glycerol) during evaporative droplet ageing, displaying a dramatic shift from a core composition of a volatile species to that of predominantly water (non-volatile glycerol remained in this case). This yields a droplet with a water activity of 0.98 at the instance of inhalation. The implications of these results on regional and total pulmonary drug deposition are explored using the International Commission of Radiological Protection (ICRP) deposition model, with an integrated semi-analytical treatment of hygroscopic growth. Through this, droplets with water activity of 0.98 upon inhalation are shown to produce markedly different dose deposition profiles to those with lower water activities at the point of inspiration.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2019.05.011
Title:Simultaneous Particle Size Reduction and Homogeneous Mixing to Produce Combinational Powder Formulations for Inhalation by the Single-Step Co-Jet Milling
Authors:J. LingS. MangalH. ParkS. WangA. CavallaroQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Homogeneous mixing of 2 cohesive jet-milled drug powders is a challenge for pharmaceutical manufacturing on account of their cohesive nature resulting in the formation of strong and random agglomerates. In this study, colistin and ciprofloxacin were co-jet milled to develop combinational antibiotic dry powder formulations for inhalation. The properties of particle size, morphology, content uniformity, and in vitro aerosolization were evaluated. The distribution of 2 drugs in the co-jet milled powders was assessed using time-of-flight–secondary ion mass spectrometry. The co-jet milled powders demonstrated an acceptable content uniformity indicating homogeneity. In general, time-of-flight–secondary ion mass spectrometry images showed relatively homogeneous distributions of ciprofloxacin and colistin in the co-milled formulations. Importantly, the 2 drugs generally had the similar fine particle fraction and deposition behavior in each combinational formulation supporting that the particle mixtures were relatively homogenous and could maximize the antimicrobial synergy. In conclusion, co-jet milling could be a viable technique to produce the combination powders for inhalation.

doi:10.1159/000445116
Title:Liposome Delivery Systems for Inhalation: A Critical Review Highlighting Formulation Issues and Anticancer Applications
Authors:M. RudokasM. NajlahM.A. AlhnanA. Elhissi
Absract:This is a critical review on research conducted in the field of pulmonary delivery of liposomes. Issues relating to the mechanism of nebulisation and liposome composition were appraised and correlated with literature reports of liposome formulations used in clinical trials to understand the role of liposome size and composition on therapeutic outcome. A major highlight was liposome inhalation for the treatment of lung cancers. Many in vivo studies that explored the potential of liposomes as anticancer carrier systems were evaluated, including animal studies and clinical trials. Liposomes can entrap anticancer drugs and localise their action in the lung following pulmonary delivery. The safety of inhaled liposomes incorporating anticancer drugs depends on the anticancer agent used and the amount of drug delivered to the target cancer in the lung. The difficulty of efficient targeting of liposomal anticancer aerosols to the cancerous tissues within the lung may result in low doses reaching the target site. Overall, following the success of liposomes as inhalable carriers in the treatment of lung infections, it is expected that more focus from research and development will be given to designing inhalable liposome carriers for the treatment of other lung diseases, including pulmonary cancers. The successful development of anticancer liposomes for inhalation may depend on the future development of effective aerosolisation devices and better targeted liposomes to maximise the benefit of therapy and reduce the potential for local and systemic adverse effects.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666151008124622
Title:Recent advances in the fundamental understanding of adhesive mixtures for inhalation
Authors:F. GrasmeijerN. GrasmeijerP. HagedoornH.W. FrijlinkA.H. de Boer
Absract:Adhesive mixtures for inhalation are the most widely used type of formulation in dry powder inhalation products. Although they have been the subject of active research, the relationships between properties of the starting materials, the mixing and dispersion processes, and the dispersion performance of this type of formulation are generally poorly understood. Interactions between relevant variables have been mentioned as an important cause. By reviewing the effects on mixture dispersion performance of the most widely studied formulation variables we try to find out whether or not the understanding of adhesive mixtures has improved in recent years. We furthermore propose an approach that may potentially accelerate the process of understanding. General conclusions concerning the effects of the variables considered cannot be drawn, because inconsistent findings are reported throughout the literature for all of them. These inconsistencies are indeed largely the result of interactions between variables of the formulation and dispersion processes. Mechanisms for most of the observed effects and interactions have been proposed, but they often remain unproven and, therefore, speculative. We have attempted to condense the knowledge from the literature into a theoretical framework that is intended to help explain the interplay between variables. According to this framework, only few mixture properties are key to understanding the effects of and interactions between formulation variables. Therefore, we suggest that the development or optimisation of techniques to accurately characterise these mixture properties could be an effective approach to further the fundamental understanding of adhesive mixtures for inhalation and enable their rational engineering.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2005.06.007
Title:Spray freeze drying to produce a stable Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end- tetrahydrocannabinol containing inulin-based solid dispersion powder suitable for inhalation
Authors:D.-J. Van DroogeW.L.J. HinrichsB.H.J. DickhoffM.N.A. ElliM.R. VisserG.S. ZijlstraH.W. Frijlink
Absract:The purpose of this study is to investigate whether spray freeze drying produces an inhalable solid dispersion powder in which Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end- tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is stabilised. Solutions of THC and inulin in a mixture of tertiary butanol (TBA) and water were spray freeze dried. Drug loads varied from 4 to 30 wt.%. Various powder characteristics of the materials were determined. Stability of THC was determined and compared with freeze dried material. The powders, dispersed with an inhaler based on air classifier technology, were subjected to laser diffraction analysis and cascade impactor analysis. Highly porous particles having large specific surface areas (about 90 m@sup_begin2@sup_end/g) were produced. At high drug loads, THC was more effectively stabilised by spray freeze drying than by freeze drying. Higher cooling rates during spray freeze drying result in improved incorporation. Fine particle fractions of up to 50% were generated indicating suitability for inhalation. It was concluded that spray freeze drying from a water-TBA mixture is a suitable process to include lipophilic drugs (THC) in inulin glass matrices. High cooling rates during the freezing process result in effective stabilisation of THC. The powders can be dispersed into aerosols with a particle size appropriate for inhalation. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2021.08.012
Title:Improved Bioavailability with Dry Powder Cannabidiol Inhalation: A Phase 1 Clinical Study
Authors:O. DevinskyK. KraftL. RuschM. FeinA. Leone-Bay
Absract:Oral cannabidiol (CBD) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat patients with Dravet and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes and tuberous sclerosis complex. The therapeutic potential of oral CBD formulations is limited by extensive first-pass hepatic metabolism. Following oral administration, the inactive metabolite blood concentration is ∼40-fold higher than CBD. Inhalation bypasses the pharmacokinetic (PK) variability attributed to irregular gastrointestinal absorption and first-pass hepatic metabolism and may efficiently deliver CBD into systemic circulation. This phase 1 study compared the PK of a dry-powder inhaler (DPI) CBD formulation (10 mg powder containing 2.1 mg CBD) with an oral CBD solution (Epidiolex®, 50 mg) in healthy participants. Following a single dose of Epidiolex or DPI CBD (n=10 PK evaluable participants each), the maximum CBD concentration for the inhaled powder was 71-fold higher than that of Epidiolex while administering 24-fold less CBD. The mean time to reach maximum concentration was 3.8 min for the DPI CBD formulation compared with 122 min for Epidiolex. Both Epidiolex and DPI CBD were generally safe and well-tolerated. These data indicate that DPI CBD provided more rapid onset and increased bioavailability than oral CBD and support further investigations on the use of DPI CBD for acute indications.

pui:25180533
Title:Comparative evaluation of inhalation devices. The effect of design and inspiratory performance on lung deposition
Authors:A. Van Der KuyC.F. LerkA.H. De Boer
Absract:Patients with chronic nonspecific lung diseases like asthma, chronic bronchitis and pulmonary emphysema use medication by inhalation, because the target organ can be reached easily. Metered dose aerosols are the most widely used type of dose system, but an increasing interest in multi-dose dry-powder inhalers can be observed for numerous reasons. The design of the inhaler has a major influence on the respirable drug fraction. In radioactive labelling studies it has been calculated that only 10 to 24% of the nominal drug dose reaches the lungs, when a metered aerosol is administered, with or without large volume-spacer devices. Similar studies, performed at different flow rates, resulted for the Rotahaler in depositions of 6 to 21%; for the Diskhaler in depositions of approximately 12% and for the Turbuhaler in depositions of 20 to 30%. Other dry-powder inhalers have not been investigated to a sufficient extent. The design of inhalers with a high air-flow resistance, e.g. Turbuhaler and Inhalator Ingelheim, has proved to be favourable for disintegration of the powder formulation into primary drug particles at lower and moderate flow rates. Recently published lung deposition data and results from equipotency studies invite to reconsider the dosages as advised for different types of inhalation systems.

doi:10.1002/jps.2600740905
Title:Drug absorption from inhalation aerosols administered by positive-pressure ventilation I: Administration of a characterized, solid disodium fluorescein aerosol under a controlled respiratory regime to the beagle dog
Authors:P.R. ByronA.R. Clark
Absract:An apparatus and novel method is described for administration of well-characterized inhalation aerosols, under strictly controlled respiratory regimes, direct to the respiratory tract (RT) of the beagle dog by positive-pressure ventilation. The method enables the study of systemic absorption kinetics of compounds delivered as inhalation aerosols as a function of the aerosol particle size and respiratory variables provided their intrinsic pharmacokinetics are linear. Aerosol characteristics are determined by sampling the aerosol at a point close to its entry to the endotracheally intubated animal. The chosen positive-pressure ventilatory regime, which is monitored as airway pressure and exhaled volume versus time, can be held constant for the aerosol administration period. The methodology is illustrated by administration of a solid polydispersed aerosol of disodium fluorescein. Resultant plasma concentrations (C) were determined as a function of time by sampling from an indwelling venous cannula. The pharmacokinetic analysis of resultant C versus time data, together with that from an intravenous control experiment, is described to determine the amount absorbed as a function of time. Following aerosol administration according to the chosen respiratory regime, fluorescein was rapidly absorbed from the RT. The methodology will enable systematic variation of the particle size and positive-pressure respiratory regime in order to determine effects on drug absorption kinetics.

doi:10.2147/DDDT.S116443
Title:Development of a microparticle-based dry powder inhalation formulation of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride applying the quality by design approach
Authors:K. KarimiE. PallagiP. Szabó-RévészI. CsókaR. Ambrus
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride offers effective local antibacterial activity and convenience of easy application. Spray drying is a trustworthy technique for the production of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride microparticles. Quality by design (QbD), an up-to-date regulatory-based quality management method, was used to predict the final quality of the product. According to the QbD-based theoretical preliminary parameter ranking and priority classification, dry powder inhalation formulation tests were successfully performed in practice. When focusing on the critical parameters, the practical development was more effective and was in correlation with our previous findings. Spray drying produced spherical microparticles. The dry powder formulations prepared were examined by particle size analysis, scanning electron microscopy, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray powder diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, and in vitro drug release and aerodynamic particle size analyses were also performed. These formulations showed an appropriate particle size ranging between 2 and 4 μm and displayed an enhanced aerosol performance with fine particle fraction up to 80%.

doi:10.1016/j.taap.2013.05.024
Title:Physiologically-based pharmacokinetic model for Fentanyl in support of the development of Provisional Advisory Levels
Authors:H. ShankaranF. AdeshinaJ.G. Teeguarden
Absract:Provisional Advisory Levels (PALs) are tiered exposure limits for toxic chemicals in air and drinking water that are developed to assist in emergency responses. Physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling can support this process by enabling extrapolations across doses, and exposure routes, thereby addressing gaps in the available toxicity data. Here, we describe the development of a PBPK model for Fentanyl - a synthetic opioid used clinically for pain management - to support the establishment of PALs. Starting from an existing model for intravenous Fentanyl, we first optimized distribution and clearance parameters using several additional IV datasets. We then calibrated the model using pharmacokinetic data for various formulations, and determined the absorbed fraction, F, and time taken for the absorbed amount to reach 90% of its final value, t90. For aerosolized pulmonary Fentanyl, F= 1 and t90. <. 1. min indicating complete and rapid absorption. The F value ranged from 0.35 to 0.74 for oral and various transmucosal routes. Oral Fentanyl was absorbed the slowest (t90 ~ 300. min); the absorption of intranasal Fentanyl was relatively rapid (t90 ~ 20-40. min); and the various oral transmucosal routes had intermediate absorption rates (t90 ~ 160-300. min). Based on these results, for inhalation exposures, we assumed that all of the Fentanyl inhaled from the air during each breath directly, and instantaneously enters the arterial circulation. We present model predictions of Fentanyl blood concentrations in oral and inhalation scenarios relevant for PAL development, and provide an analytical expression that can be used to extrapolate between oral and inhalation routes for the derivation of PALs. © 2013.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.01.007
Title:Assessing the performance of two dry powder inhalers in preschool children using an idealized pediatric upper airway model
Authors:A. BelowD. BickmannJ. Breitkreutz
Absract:High prevalence of pulmonary diseases in childhood requires inhalable medication even for young children. Little is known about the efficiency of aerosol therapy especially in preschool children. One factor which limits the lung dose is the upper airway geometry. Based on clinical data a recently developed idealized pediatric upper airway model (children 4-5 years) was used to investigate the performance of two dry powder inhalers (Easyhaler and Novolizer). In vitro investigations were first examined using steady flow rates and an inhalation volume of 1 L. Chosen flow rates were 28, 41 and 60 L/min (Easyhaler) and 45, 60 and 75 L/min (Novolizer). Afterwards inhalation profiles simulated by an electronic lung were included. The investigations showed high amounts of drug particles (up to 80%) which were deposited in the upper airway model. The pulmonary deposition in vitro using the Easyhaler was about 28% (28-60 L/min) and 22% (inhalation profile). Using the Novolizer in vitro pulmonary doses of 8-12% (45-75 L/min) and about 5% (inhalation profile) were observed. The idealized model shows good performance reproducibility of dry powder inhalers. We have shown that age-dependent models might be appropriate tools for formulation and device development in pediatric age groups. © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s11095-004-5171-6
Title:The mode of drug particle detachment from carrier crystals in an air classifier-based inhaler
Authors:A.H. De BoerP. HagedoornD. GjaltemaD. LambregtsM. IrngartingerH.W. Frijlink
Absract:Purpose. To investigate the mode of drug particle detachment from carrier crystals in an air classifier as a function of the carrier size fraction, payload, and the circulation time in the classifier. Methods. Laser diffraction analysis of the aerosol cloud from the classifier has been performed at 10, 20, 30, and 60 l/min, using a special adapter, for different adhesive mixture compositions. Results. A significant part of the drug particles is detached from carrier crystals during inhalation as small agglomerates. Such agglomerates originate from the starting material or are newly formed on the carrier surface during mixing. The degree of agglomeration during mixing depends on the carrier size, payload, and surface rugosity. The size of the agglomerates that are formed during mixing, increases with the size of the carrier particles. Predominantly the largest drug particles and agglomerates are detached within the first 0.5 s of inhalation. After 0.5 s, smaller primary particles are dislodged. Conclusions. A high ratio of removal forces to adhesive forces causes a high drug detachment rate from carrier crystals in a classifier within the first 0.5 s of inhalation. The high ratio can be explained by dislodgment of agglomerates and the largest primary particles in the early phases of inhalation. At higher flow rates, detached agglomerates may be further disintegrated into primary particles before they are discharged from the classifier. Agglomeration of drug particles on the carrier surface is the result of the same forces that are responsible for pressing these particles firmly to the carrier crystals during mixing. © 2004 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1080/10717544.2017.1384298
Title:Critical physicochemical and biological attributes of nanoemulsions for pulmonary delivery of rifampicin by nebulization technique in tuberculosis treatment
Authors:K. ShahL.W. ChanT.W. Wong
Absract:The study investigated aerosolization, pulmonary inhalation, intracellular trafficking potential in macrophages and pharmacokinetics profiles of rifampicin-oleic acid first-generation nanoemulsion and its respective chitosan-and chitosan-folate conjugate-decorated second and third-generation nanoemulsions, delivered via nebulization technique. The nanoemulsions were prepared by conjugate synthesis and spontaneous emulsification techniques. They were subjected to physicochemical, drug release, aerosolization, inhalation, cell culture and pharmacokinetics analysis. The nanoemulsions had average droplet sizes of 40–60 nm, with narrow polydispersity indices. They exhibited desirable pH, surface tension, viscosity, refractive index, density and viscosity attributes for pulmonary rifampicin administration. All nanoemulsions demonstrated more than 95% aerosol output and inhalation efficiency greater than 75%. The aerosol output, aerosolized and inhaled fine particle fractions were primarily governed by the size and surface tension of nanoemulsions in an inverse relationship. The nanoemulsions were found to be safe with third-generation nanoemulsion exhibiting higher cell internalization potential, reduced plasma drug concentration, and higher lung drug content.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.03.004
Title:Dispersibility of lactose fines as compared to API in dry powders for inhalation
Authors:K. ThalbergS. ÅslundM. SkogevallP. Andersson
Absract:This work investigates the dispersion performance of fine lactose particles as function of processing time, and compares it to the API, using Beclomethasone Dipropionate (BDP) as model API. The total load of fine particles is kept constant in the formulations while the proportions of API and lactose fines are varied. Fine particle assessment demonstrates that the lactose fines have higher dispersibility than the API. For standard formulations, processing time has a limited effect on the Fine Particle Fraction (FPF). For formulations containing magnesium stearate (MgSt), FPF of BDP is heavily influenced by processing time, with an initial increase, followed by a decrease at longer mixing times. An equation modeling the observed behavior is presented. Surprisingly, the dispersibility of the lactose fines present in the same formulation remains unaffected by mixing time. Magnesium analysis demonstrates that MgSt is transferred to the fine particles during the mixing process, thus lubrication both BDP and lactose fines, which leads to an increased FPF. Dry particle sizing of the formulations reveals a loss of fine particles at longer mixing times. Incorporation of fine particles into the carrier surfaces is believed to be behind this, and is hence a mechanism of importance as regards the dispersion performance of dry powders for inhalation.

pui:613606193
Title:Chvatal, A., Szabo, B., Szabo-Revesz, P., Ambrus, R.: Formulation of new generation drug delivery system for dry powder inhalation
Authors:C. AnitaS. BalintS.R. PiroskaA. Rita
Absract:Based on the formulation method the dry powder inhalers (DPIs) can be divided in too types: carrier-based and carrier- free drug delivery systems. The newest researches report about several high potency carrier-free formulations, where the active ingredient and the excipients are together formulated to the DPI form. However, in Hungary the commercially available DPIs are carrier-based (e.g. lactose), which means that only the micronized active ingredient reaches the deeper lungs, the big carrier deposits in the upper airways. The present work is about formulating a high efficacy mannitol-based Pulmonary Drug Delivery System (PDDS), which is able to delivery different types of active ingredients to the deeper lungs with higher deposition rate. The present study involves the physico-chemical and aerodynamical characterisation of mannitol-based PDDS. The results demonstrated the use of the appropriate excipients (leucine, poly-vinyl- alcohol, cyclodextrine) and solvent combination (ethanol-zoater) during the co-spray drying, increases the inhalation properties of the mannitol. Such carrier systems with optimized properties can increase the aerolization efficacy of the active ingredient.

doi:10.1016/0954-6111(95)90244-9
Title:Salbutamol powder inhaled from the Diskhaler compared to salbutamol as nebulizer solution in severe chronic airways obstruction
Authors:N.C.G. HansenP.B. Andersen
Absract:The bronchodilatory effect of four doses of salbutamol powder (1.6 mg) from a multi-dose dry powder inhaler, the Diskhaler, was compared to the effect of 2.5 ml salbutamol nebulizer solution (1 mg ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end) from a jet nebulizer, Pari Inhalierboy, in a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over study performed on 2 consecutive days. Thirty-two patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a mean FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end=29% of predicted value, and at least a 15% increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end after inhaling 5 mg nebulized terbutaline were included. Twenty-eight patients were evaluated: 17 women and 11 men with a mean age of 67 years (range 53-82 years). The mean increases in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were greater after inhalation via the Diskhaler, although there was no difference in the patients' subjective assessment of the treatments. The powder inhaler was also effective in patients with the lowest baseline FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and the lowest inspiratory peak flow through the inhaler. The study demonstrates that dry powder inhalation of salbutamol via a Diskhaler is at least as effective as inhalation of salbutamol via a jet nebulizer in providing bronchodilation in patients with severe COPD.

doi:10.1007/s005400300001
Title:Vital capacity induction with 8% sevoflurane and N@sub_begin2@sub_endO causes cerebral hyperemia
Authors:K. IwasakiY. NomotoM. IshiwataT. YokotaR. Ogawa
Absract:Purpose. Little is known about the influence of high-dose sevoflurane on cerebral volume. We evaluated induction time and cerebral blood volume with 8% sevoflurane using the "vital capacity induction" technique. Methods. Thirty-four patients were randomly allocated into three groups. Group P received 2.0 mg·kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end of propofol i.v. and inhalation of 67% N@sub_begin2@sub_endO/O@sub_begin2@sub_end, whereas group S5 and group S8 received inhalation of primed 5% and 8% sevoflurane in 67% N@sub_begin2@sub_endO/O@sub_begin2@sub_end, respectively. Induction time was measured as the time from the start of inhalation, or from the end of injection, until loss of eyelash reflex. Near-infrared spectroscopy and bispectral index (BIS) were monitored continuously until 3 min after tracheal intubation. Results. Induction time was less in group S8 (17.3 ± 6.4 s, mean ± SD) than in groups P (25.7 ± 8.2 s) and S5 (33.0 ± 16.8 s). There was a significant increase in cerebral blood volume after intubation in group S8, as suggested by higher cerebral oxyhemoglobin and total hemoglobin levels. There were no differences in BIS scores among the groups during the study period. Conclusion. Vital capacity inhalation of 8% sevoflurane produces a faster loss of eyelash reflex than does 5% sevoflurane or propofol, but increases cerebral blood volume.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12060535
Title:Development of an innovative, carrier‐based dry powder inhalation formulation containing spray‐dried meloxicam potassium to improve the in vitro and in silico aerodynamic properties
Authors:E. BenkeÁ. FarkasP. Szabó‐révészR. Ambrus
Absract:Most of the marketed dry powder inhalation (DPI) products are traditional, carrier‐based formulations with low drug concentrations deposited in the lung. However, due to their advantageous properties, their development has become justified. In our present work, we developed an innovative, carrier‐based DPI system, which is an interactive physical blend of a surface‐modified carrier and a spray‐dried drug with suitable shape and size for pulmonary application. Meloxicam potassium, a nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID), was used as an active ingredient due to its local anti‐inflammatory effect and ability to decrease the progression of cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The results of the in vitro and in silico investigations showed high lung deposition in the case of this new formulation, confirming that the interparticle interactions were changed favorably.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2016.1224846
Title:Dry powder inhalation: past, present and future
Authors:A.H. de BoerP. HagedoornM. HoppentochtF. ButtiniF. GrasmeijerH.W. Frijlink
Absract:Introduction: Early dry powder inhalers (DPIs) were designed for low drug doses in asthma and COPD therapy. Nearly all concepts contained carrier-based formulations and lacked efficient dispersion principles. Therefore, particle engineering and powder processing are increasingly applied to achieve acceptable lung deposition with these poorly designed inhalers. Areas covered: The consequences of the choices made for early DPI development with respect of efficacy, production costs and safety and the tremendous amount of energy put into understanding and controlling the dispersion performance of adhesive mixtures are discussed. Also newly developed particle manufacturing and powder formulation processes are presented as well as the challenges, objectives, and new tools available for future DPI design. Expert opinion: Improved inhaler design is desired to make DPIs for future applications cost-effective and safe. With an increasing interest in high dose drug delivery, vaccination and systemic delivery via the lungs, innovative formulation technologies alone may not be sufficient. Safety is served by increasing patient adherence to the therapy, minimizing the use of unnecessary excipients and designing simple and self-intuitive inhalers, which give good feedback to the patient about the inhalation maneuver. For some applications, like vaccination and delivery of hygroscopic formulations, disposable inhalers may be preferred.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.06.134
Title:Fabrication of nanocomposite particles using a two-solution mixing-type spray nozzle for use in an inhaled curcumin formulation
Authors:M. TakiT. TagamiK. FukushigeT. Ozeki
Absract:A unique two-solution mixing-type spray nozzle is useful for producing nanocomposite particles (microparticles containing drug nanoparticles) in one step. The nanocomposite particles can prevent nanoparticle aggregation. Curcumin has many reported pharmacological effects. Curcumin was entrapped in mannitol microparticles using a spray dryer coupled with a two-solution mixing-type spray nozzle to prepare “curcumin nanocomposite particles” and the application of these particles for inhalation formulations was investigated. Spray drying conditions (flow rate, concentration and inlet temperature) affected the size of both the resulting curcumin nanocomposite particles and the curcumin nanoparticles in the nanocomposite particles. The aerosol performance of the curcumin nanocomposite particles changed depending on the spray drying conditions and several conditions provided better deposition compared with the curcumin original powder. The curcumin nanocomposite particles showed an improved dissolution profile of curcumin compared with the original powder. Furthermore, the curcumin nanocomposite particles showed a higher cytotoxic effect compared with the curcumin original powder towards three cancer cell lines. Curcumin nanocomposite particles containing curcumin nanoparticles show promise as an inhalation formulation for treating lung-related diseases including cancer.

pui:32172853
Title:Treating systemic diseases via the lung
Authors:S. SanjarJ. Matthews
Absract:Inhalation of pharmacologically active substances for medicinal, social, or recreational purposes has been prevalent for centuries but experience of exploiting the lung as a route of delivery for treatment of nonrespiratory diseases is limited. Despite the success of current applications such as anesthetics, the utility of the lung for drug delivery is not well appreciated, despite advantages such as rapid onset of action. Two drawbacks are the relatively poor efficiency of current inhalation devices, especially for large molecules, and the poor patient acceptability of inhalers. Advances now being made in pulmonary delivery technology may provide the impetus needed for the development of new inhaled presentations of drugs such as peptide hormones and other biologically derived molecules. Molecules of various sizes can be delivered in clinically relevant quantities via the lung. In vitro methods show that lipophilic drugs are absorbed through the alveolar membrane more quickly. Early work in animal models has already shown that absorption of analgesic and antiinflammatory drugs that are not well absorbed orally can be improved by delivering them by inhalation. This work may soon give rise to new formulations for therapeutic use.

doi:10.1007/s12325-020-01289-y
Title:Inhalation Therapy for Stable COPD: 20 Years of GOLD Reports
Authors:P.D. TerryR. Dhand
Absract:The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) was formed in the late 1990s to spread awareness of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as a major public health problem and facilitate its prevention and treatment. GOLD has since become internationally recognized for the development of evidence-based strategy documents, most notably the annual GOLD Reports, for COPD diagnosis, management, and prevention. The GOLD Reports incorporate the latest evidence and expert consensus to guide the management and prevention of COPD on a global level. Since the first GOLD Report in 2001, profound innovations have taken place regarding inhaler device options, available pharmaceuticals, knowledge regarding effective dosages and potential side effects, and the various combinations of drugs used to relieve symptoms. Concomitantly, an evolution of expert opinion on how best to apply these innovations to the care of patients with COPD has also taken place, an evolution that is nowhere more detailed or definitive than in the 20 years of annual GOLD Reports. We summarize key features and trends in inhalation therapy for stable COPD in these Reports.

doi:10.1248/yakushi.12-00245-4
Title:Strategy and collaboration between medicinal chemists and pharmaceutical scientists for drug delivery systems
Authors:T. Mano
Absract:In order to successfully apply drug delivery systems (DDS) to new chemical entities (NCEs), collaboration between medicinal chemists and formulation scientists is critical for efficient drug discovery. Formulation scientists have to use 'language' that medicinal chemists understand to help promote mutual understanding, and medicinal chemists and formulation scientists have to set up strategies to use suitable DDS technologies at the discovery phase of the programmes to ensure successful transfer into the development phase. In this review, strategies of solubilisation formulation for oral delivery, inhalation delivery, nasal delivery and bioconjugation are all discussed. For example, for oral drug delivery, multiple initiatives can be proposed to improve the process to select an optimal delivery option for an NCE. From a technical perspective, formulation scientists have to explain the scope and limitations of formulations as some DDS technologies might be applicable only to limited chemical spaces. Other limitations could be the administered dose and, cost, time and resources for formulation development and manufacturing. Since DDS selection is best placed as part of leadoptimisation, formulation scientists need to be involved in discovery projects at lead selection and optimisation stages. The key to success in their collaboration is to facilitate communication between these two areas of expertise at both a strategic and scientific level. Also, it would be beneficial for medicinal chemists and formulation scientists to set common goals to improve the process of collaboration and build long term partnerships to improve DDS. © 2013 The Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1016/S0264-410X(98)00438-1
Title:Dry powder inhalation as a potential delivery method for vaccines
Authors:C. LicalsiT. ChristensenJ.V. BennettE. PhillipsC. Witham
Absract:Measles vaccine is administered to millions of children annually via a percutaneous injection. There are, however, compelling reasons to search for alternative routes of administration, especially in mass vaccination campaigns. Two key factors are (1) decreased stability of the vaccine upon reconstitution and, (2) the potential risks of contamination associated with needles. Dura has developed a unique inhaler that can deliver a powder dose via the pulmonary route for local or systemic action. The breath-actuated Spiros® inhaler uses electromechanical energy to aerosolize and deliver a consistent dose over a wide range of inspiratory flow rates. To achieve alveolar (deep lung) deposition for subsequent systemic absorption, dry- powder vaccine is size reduced to a mass median diameter between 1 and 5 μm. Small vaccine particles are blended with an inert carrier to improve dispersion. Measles vaccine formulated as a powder blend may be more thermostable than existing reconstituted formulations. The Spiros® technology is available in three powder storage platforms. Two of these formats are designed specifically for moisture and/or light sensitive compounds and may be particularly suitable for delivery of measles vaccines in mass campaigns because their design (1) eliminates the need for powder reconstitution, and (2) reduces the risk of contamination.

doi:10.1021/mp500335w
Title:Formulation pre-screening of inhalation powders using computational atom-atom systematic search method
Authors:V. RamachandranD. MurnaneR.B. HammondJ. PickeringK.J. RobertsM. SoufianB. ForbesS. JaffariG.P. MartinE. CollinsK. Pencheva
Absract:The synthonic modeling approach provides a molecule-centered understanding of the surface properties of crystals. It has been applied extensively to understand crystallization processes. This study aimed to investigate the functional relevance of synthonic modeling to the formulation of inhalation powders by assessing cohesivity of three active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs, fluticasone propionate (FP), budesonide (Bud), and salbutamol base (SB)) and the commonly used excipient, α-lactose monohydrate (LMH). It is found that FP (-11.5 kcal/mol) has a higher cohesive strength than Bud (-9.9 kcal/mol) or SB (-7.8 kcal/mol). The prediction correlated directly to cohesive strength measurements using laser diffraction, where the airflow pressure required for complete dispersion (CPP) was 3.5, 2.0, and 1.0 bar for FP, Bud, and SB, respectively. The highest cohesive strength was predicted for LMH (-15.9 kcal/mol), which did not correlate with the CPP value of 2.0 bar (i.e., ranking lower than FP). High FP-LMH adhesive forces (-11.7 kcal/mol) were predicted. However, aerosolization studies revealed that the FP-LMH blends consisted of agglomerated FP particles with a large median diameter (∼4-5 μm) that were not disrupted by LMH. Modeling of the crystal and surface chemistry of LMH identified high electrostatic and H-bond components of its cohesive energy due to the presence of water and hydroxyl groups in lactose, unlike the APIs. A direct comparison of the predicted and measured cohesive balance of LMH with APIs will require a more in-depth understanding of highly hydrogen-bonded systems with respect to the synthonic engineering modeling tool, as well as the influence of agglomerate structure on surface-surface contact geometry. Overall, this research has demonstrated the possible application and relevance of synthonic engineering tools for rapid pre-screening in drug formulation and design.

doi:10.1248/cpb.56.617
Title:Application and mechanism of inhalation profile improvement of DPI formulations by mechanofusion with magnesium stearate
Authors:M. KumonS. MachidaM. SuzukiA. KusaiE. YonemochiK. Terada
Absract:In our previous paper, we reported the inhalation properties of dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations containing Compound A and mechanofusion-processed lactose carriers. The mechanofusion process with magnesium stearate (Mg-St) on the lactose carrier enhanced the fine particle fraction (FPF) value of the Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) study. The increase of FPF seemed to be associated with the increase of the dispersibility of drug particles. The objectives of this study were (1) to evaluate the applicability of lactose carrier mechanofusion-processed with Mg-St and (2) to examine the mechanism of FPF alteration by the mechanofusion process applied on the lactose carrier with or without additive. The inhalation profiles of DPI formulations containing four different pharmaceutical compounds were evaluated with an ACI. The dispersibility of the formulations was observed by particle size distribution measurement in the air stream and the adhesive force was measured by direct separation method. It was found that higher FPF was obtained with lactose mechanofusion-processed with Mg-St as compared to control lactose carriers for all four compounds. This suggested that mechanofusion process with Mg-St is widely applicable in DPI formulations. The homogenization of surface adhesiveness was attributed to the increased FPF of the DPI including lactose mechanofusion-processed with Mg-St, as suggested by the combination of several physicochemical characteristics. Combination of different characterization methods would be of help to clarify the whole mechanism which defines the inhalation properties of DPI formulations. © 2008 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1007/s11095-016-1887-3
Title:Development of an Improved Inhalable Powder Formulation of Pirfenidone by Spray-Drying: In Vitro Characterization and Pharmacokinetic Profiling
Authors:Y. SetoG. SuzukiS.S.Y. LeungH.-K. ChanS. Onoue
Absract:Purpose: Previously, a respirable powder (RP) formulation of pirfenidone (PFD) was developed for reducing phototoxic risk; however, PFD-RP demonstrated unacceptable in vitro inhalation performance. The present study aimed to develop a new RP system of PFD with favorable inhalation properties by spray-drying method. Methods: Spray-dried PFD (SD/PFD) was prepared by spray-drying with L-leucine, and the physicochemical properties and efficacy in an antigen-sensitized airway inflammation model were assessed. A pharmacokinetic study was also conducted after intratracheal and oral administration of PFD formulations. Results: Regarding powder characterization, SD/PFD had dimpled surface with the mean diameter of 1.793 μm. In next generation impactor analysis, SD/PFD demonstrated high in vitro inhalation performance without the need of carrier particles, and the fine particle fraction of SD/PFD was calculated to be 62.4%. Insufflated SD/PFD (0.3 mg-PFD/rat) attenuated antigen-evoked inflammatory events in the lung, including infiltration of inflammatory cells and myeloperoxidase activity. Systemic exposure level of PFD after insufflation of SD/PFD at the pharmacologically effective dose was 600-fold lower than that after oral administration of PFD at the phototoxic dose. Conclusion: SD/PFD would be suitable for inhalation, and the utilization of an RP system with SD/PFD would provide a safer medication compared with oral administration of PFD.

doi:10.1016/S1081-1206(10)62673-7
Title:Placebo-controlled, comparative study of the efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide inhalation aerosol with the non-CFC propellant HFA- 134a in patients with asthma
Authors:K. JacobsonP. ChervinskyM. NoonanR.E. KaneD. BanerjiT. Uryniak
Absract:Background: Triamcinolone acetonide (TAA) inhalation aerosol (Azmacort® Inhalation Aerosol), a well-established corticosteroid treatment for bronchial asthma, utilizes the chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellant P-12, which will be phased out because of environmental concerns. Two TAA aerosol formulations have been developed using a non-chlorofluorocarbon propellant, HFA-134a (Azmacort® HFA Inhalation Aerosol delivering TAA 75 μg/puff or 225 μg/puff). Objective: This study compared the efficacy and safety of the new 225 μg/puff formulation (TAA-HFA 225) to the marketed TAA inhalation aerosol (TAA-CFC) and to placebo in adult patients with moderate-to-severe persistent asthma. Methods: After a 5-day to 21-day baseline period during which all patients received TAA-CFC 150 μg/day, 538 patients were randomized to one of the following treatment schedules: TAA-HFA 450, 900, or 1800 μg/day; TAA-CFC 450 or 900 μg/day; or placebo for 12 weeks. Results: All active treatment groups showed statistically significant improvement compared with placebo in pulmonary function (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, FEF(25-75%), morning and evening PEF), use of rescue albuterol, and asthma symptom scores. Improvements in all variables occurred within 1 week of treatment. Conclusions: The TAA-HFA 225 exhibited similar safety and efficacy profiles to the two equivalent doses of TAA-CFC studied. Our findings indicate that TAAHFA is a safe and effective replacement for the currently marketed CFC-containing product. The higher strength 225 μg/puff formulation provides effective control of asthma with fewer inhalations.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00907
Title:Enhanced Aerosolization of High Potency Nanoaggregates of Voriconazole by Dry Powder Inhalation
Authors:C. MoonA.B. WattsX. LuY. SuR.O. Williams
Absract:Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is a deadly fungal infection with a high mortality rate, particularly in patients having undergone transplant surgery. Voriconazole, a triazole antifungal pharmaceutical product, is considered as a first-line therapy for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, and exhibits efficacy even for patients who have failed other antifungal drug therapies. The objective of this study is to develop high potency nanoaggregates of crystalline voriconazole composition for dry powder inhalation using the particle engineering process, thin film freezing. In this study, mannitol at low concentrations acted as a surface texture-modifying agent, and we evaluated the physicochemical and aerodynamic properties of the voriconazole formulations containing different amounts of mannitol. In vitro aerosol performance data demonstrated that powder formulations consisting of 90 to 97% (w/w) voriconazole were the optimum for inhalation with a fine particle fraction (% of delivered dose) as high as 73.6 ± 3.2% and mass median aerodynamic diameter of 3.03 ± 0.17 μm when delivered by a commercially available device. The thin film freezing process enabled phase-separated submicron crystalline mannitol to be oriented such as to modify the surface texture of the crystalline voriconazole nanoaggregates, thus enhancing their aerosolization. Addition of as low as 3% (w/w) mannitol significantly increased the fine particle fraction (% of metered dose) of voriconazole nanoaggregates when compared to compositions without mannitol (40.8% vs 24.6%, respectively). The aerosol performance of the voriconazole nanoaggregates with 5% (w/w) mannitol was maintained for 13 months at 25 °C/60% RH. Therefore, voriconazole nanoaggregates having low amounts of surface texture-modifying mannitol made by thin film freezing are a feasible local treatment option for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis with high aerosolization efficiency and drug loading for dry powder inhalation. ©

doi:10.1248/cpb.59.929
Title:Optimization and characterization of dry powder of fanhuncaoin for inhalation based on selection of excipients
Authors:X.-B. YangX.-B. WangW.-S. PanR.-G. XiY.-N. WangD. LiuY. ShiS. Jiang
Absract:In this study, dry powder formulations for inhalation of fanhuncaoin, a newly discovered antiinflammatorily active compound isolated from Chinese herb, were designed to optimize the composition and further explore the relationship between the composition, the physical properties and the aerosolization performance. Dry powders were prepared by spray-drying using leucine, chitosan, chitosan oligosaccharide and dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (DPPC) as excipients. Following spray-drying, resultant powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy, tapped density analysis, laser diffractometry, thermogravimetric analysis and differential scanning calorimetry. The aerosol behaviour of the powders was studied in a Twin Stage Impinger at an airflow rate of 60 l/min using a HandiHaler® inhaler device. Results revealed that the nature and the relative proportion of the excipients greatly influenced the physical characteristics of the powders and their aerodynamic behavior. Among the combinations tested, the composition ratio of fanhuncaoin/leucine/chitosan/ chitosan oligosaccharide/DPPC of 10/45/33.75/11.25/0.4 (w/w/w/w/w) prepared in a total solid mass of 1% (w/v) formulation was found to be particularly optimal and exhibited a tapped density of 0.44 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end, an aerodynamic diameter of 2.24 μm and an respirable fraction of 51.29%. In conclusion, optimization of the aerosolization properties of inhalation dry powders could be achieved by appropriately selecting the composition of the particles. © 2011 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1089/089426804322994433
Title:In-Vitro Intra- and Inter-Inhaler Flow Rate-Dependent Dosage Emission from a Combination of Budesonide and Eformoterol in a Dry Powder Inhaler
Authors:W. TarsinK.H. AssiH. Chrystyn
Absract:Some dry powder inhalers have profound inhalation flow rate-dependent dosage emission, and it has been suggested that there are links between the in vitro emitted dose, total lung deposition, and subsequent clinical response. We have measured the in vitro dosage delivery for a combination of budesonide and eformoterol in a new version of the Turbuhaler. At inhalation flow rates of 30, 60, and 90 Lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end, the total dose emission for 10 separate inhalations from each of six inhalers was determined. The aerodynamic characteristics of the emitted dose using inhalation flow rates of 28.3 and 60 Lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end were measured using the Andersen Cascade Impactor. The mean (SD) emitted dose for budesonide, at 30, 60, and 90 Lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end, was 37.5%(18.2%), 64.4%(16.6%), and 107.4%(36.0%) (of the nominal emitted dose), respectively, and for eformoterol were 38.0%(20.3%), 65.0%(16.8%), and 104.9%(36.2%) (of the nominal emitted dose), respectively. Variability of dose emission characteristics from each inhaler and between inhalers at each flow rate was found. The aerodynamic particle size characterization of the emitted dose at flow rates of 28.3 and 60 Lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end revealed a mean fine particle dose for budesonide of 11.9% and 28.6% of the nominal emitted dose, respectively, and similarly 10.0% and 26.3% for eformoterol. At 28.3 Lmin @sup_begin-1@sup_end, the majority of the emitted dose (54.8% for budesonide and 64.5% for eformoterol) was deposited in the throat and preseparator of the Andersen Cascade Impactor. The mass median aerodynamic diameters for budesonide and eformoterol at 28.3 Lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end were 3.2 and 3.6 μm, respectively, and similarly at 60 Lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end were 2.4 and 2.5 μm. The modified Turbuhaler containing a budesonide and eformoterol combined formulation shows intra- and inter-inhaler flow-dependent dosage emission. The clinical significance of the in vitro dose-dependent properties should be investigated.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.03.017
Title:Formulation strategy and use of excipients in pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:G. PilcerK. Amighi
Absract:Pulmonary administration of drugs presents several advantages in the treatment of many diseases. Considering local and systemic delivery, drug inhalation enables a rapid and predictable onset of action and induces fewer side effects than other routes of administration. Three main inhalation systems have been developed for the aerosolization of drugs; namely, nebulizers, pressurized metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs). The latter are currently the most convenient alternative as they are breath-actuated and do not require the use of any propellants. The deposition site in the respiratory tract and the efficiency of inhaled aerosols are critically influenced by the aerodynamic diameter, size distribution, shape and density of particles. In the case of DPIs, since micronized particles are generally very cohesive and exhibit poor flow properties, drug particles are usually blended with coarse and fine carrier particles. This increases particle aerodynamic behavior and flow properties of the drugs and ensures accurate dosage of active ingredients. At present, particles with controlled properties are obtained by milling, spray drying or supercritical fluid techniques. Several excipients such as sugars, lipids, amino acids, surfactants, polymers and absorption enhancers have been tested for their efficacy in improving drug pulmonary administration. The purpose of this article is to describe various observations that have been made in the field of inhalation product development, especially for the dry powder inhalation formulation, and to review the use of various additives, their effectiveness and their potential toxicity for pulmonary administration. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2004.04.004
Title:Direct measurement of BDP and 17-BMP in bronchial and peripheral lung tissue after inhalation of HFA- vs CFC-driven aerosols
Authors:O. HolzI. ZühlkeM. EinhausL. WelkerF. KanniessD. BranscheidM. NakashimaL.I. HarrisonR.A. JörresK. RichterH. Magnussen
Absract:Indirect assessments have shown a superior lung deposition of HFA-BDP (Ventolair@sup_begin®@sup_end/Qvar@sup_begin®@sup_end) compared to CFC-BDP (Aerobec@sup_begin®@sup_end). The aim of this study was to assess the concentrations of BDP and its metabolite 17-BMP in airways and peripheral tissue from resected lung specimens after inhalation of these BDP formulations. Immediately prior to surgery for lung cancer, 10 patients inhaled 1000 μg of either CFC-BDP (n=5) or HFA-BDP (n=5). Mouthwash was collected after inhalation, and serum before, during, and after surgery. There was no significant difference between CFC and HFA in the concentration of 17-BMP in bronchi (median, 4365 vs 4121pg/g tissue). After CFC, concentrations of 17-BMP were lower in peripheral tissue (1424 vs 2089pg/g; ANCOVA, p=0.001) and in serum taken immediately after inhalation (688 vs 1219pg/ml, p<0.01). Furthermore, the CFC group showed a higher concentration of BDP in the mouthwash (17,660 vs 1320 ng/ml, p<0.05), but the concentration of 17-BMP was lower (452 vs 1028 ng/ml, n.s.). These findings indicate a predominantly peripheral deposition of HFA-BDP, in line with previous data. They also provide evidence for a faster uptake and metabolism of HFA-BDP, probably because BDP is dissolved in HFA and has a smaller particle size distribution than the CFC suspensions. © 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1080/01902140490463142
Title:Inhalation administration of all-trans-retinoic acid for treatment of elastase-induced pulmonary emphysema in fischer 344 rats
Authors:T.H. MarchP.Y. CosseyD.C. EsparzaK.J. DixJ.D. McDonaldL.E. Bowen
Absract:A past study demonstrated that all-trans-retinoic add (ATRA) treatment by intraperitoneal injection in a rat model of elastase-induced emphysema caused tissue regeneration as evidenced by a decrease in alveolar size and lung volume and an increase in alveolar number. We postulated that treatment with this retinoid by nose-only inhalation exposure would be a more efficient means of targeting damaged lung tissue. Emphysema was induced in male Fischer 344 rats by intratracheal instillation of pancreatic elastase (0.5 IU/g body weight). Four weeks after elastase instillation, animals were treated once daily, 4 days/week, for 3 weeks by exposing them nose-only to aerosolized ATRA (target concentration-time of 3000 or 15,000 mg-min/m@sup_begin3@sup_end) or by injecting them intraperitoneally with ATRA in cottonseed oil (0.5 or 2.5 mg/kg). Based on estimates of particle deposition in the respiratory tract, inhalation doses were chosen to be consistent with injected doses. Lungs were fixed by inflation with formalin (constant pressure for 6 hours followed by > 48 hours of immersion) and were embedded in paraffin. Sections were evaluated by histopathology and stereology. Inhalation exposure to ATRA at both aerosol concentrations caused significant elevations of ATRA in the lung, whereas only the high-dose injection treatment was associated with an elevation of lung ATRA. The mean ATRA concentration from lungs of rats in the high-dose inhalation exposure groups as measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was approximately 12-fold greater than that of high-dose injection-treated rats. Elastase instillation caused increased lung volumes, irregular alveolar air space enlargement, and fragmentation and attenuation of alveolar septa. Neither inhaled nor injected ATRA reduced the enlarged lung volumes associated with this emphysema model. Stereology demonstrated that alveolar air space enlargement in ATRA-treated rats was similar to that in sham-treated emphysematous animals. Thus, while inhalation treatment caused greater levels of the drug in lung tissue in comparison to that of injection-treated animals, treatment with ATRA by either route of administration did not cause a reversal of lung tissue damage in this model of elastase-induced emphysema.

doi:10.1038/s41409-019-0559-4
Title:Liposomal cyclosporine a for inhalation (L-CSA-I) to treat bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome: Novel formulation with therapeutic potential for patients with BOS following allo-HSCT
Authors:N.R. HenigE. HofstetterD. KappelerG. Boerner
Absract:Background: Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is a rapidly progressive lung disease caused by T-cell mediated inflammation that leads to blockage of bronchioles, leading to respiratory failure and death shortly after diagnosis. Approximately 4% to 10% of patients who undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (allo-HSCT) will develop BOS, with 72-100% developing BOS as a respiratory form chronic graft-vs-host disease (cGVHD) in addition to other signs of cGVHD. Mean time to BOS diagnosis ranges from 273 to 547 days post-transplant. The histopathology of BOS after allo-HSCT and lung transplantation is identical. Early studies of L-CsA-i for the prevention of BOS in lung transplant recipients demonstrated therapeutic benefit. L-CsA-i is a novel, liposomal formulation of cyclosporine administered via a PARI investigational eFlowâ nebulizer which delivers a potent immunosuppressant to the site of disease. Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of L-CsA-i is presented. Methods: Retrospective review of two clinical studies of L-CsA-i (isotonic, 4mg/mL) for BOS associated with lung transplantation. Both studies had a control arm and results reported here are for patients who received L-CsA-i. Subjects received 5mg (single lung transplant) and 10mg (double lung transplant) bid via inhalation. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis of cyclosporine A concentrations were collected before inhalation, immediately after inhalation, and thereafter in intervals of 15, 30, 60 min and 2, 4, 8 and 12 hours. Local and general tolerability of LCsA-i was investigated. Results: Between the two studies, 85 subjects received either 5 or 10 mg bid of L-CsA-i. Pharmacokinetic models predict a constant drug level in the lung. Maximum serum cyclosporine A concentration after inhalation was 57.42 ± 34.26 ng/ml. Trough levels for up to 2-years of daily administration was 4-5 ng/ml with no evidence of accumulation following repeated exposure. Tolerability data was assessed from 1068 patient-month exposure to L-CsA-i. Reported symptoms were: pharyngeal soreness 1%; cough 22%; dyspnoea 7%; and wheezing 1%. No subject discontinued due to intolerability. Inhalation time is on average 9-13 min. Conclusions: L-CsA-i provides high and constant concentrations to the airways of the lungs and the site of BOS. L-CsA-i is well tolerated in lung transplant patients. Use of L-CsA-i instead of augmentation of systemic CsA reduces the total drug exposure. A multicentre Phase 2 safety and exploratory efficacy trial for the treatment of BOS in allo-HSCT recipients is underway.

doi:10.1208/s12248-015-9760-6
Title:Pharmacometric Models for Characterizing the Pharmacokinetics of Orally Inhaled Drugs
Authors:J.M. BorghardtB. WeberA. StaabC. Kloft
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

pui:354532385
Title:Achieving optimal particle size distribution in inhalation therapy
Authors:T. Panagiotou
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

pui:32096272
Title:Tobramycin solutions for inhalation: Nebulizing of antibiotics in cystic fibrosis
Authors:R.H.P. SmitP.P.H. Le BrunB.H. GraatsmaG.P.M. MannesH.G.M. HeijermanA.A.T.M.M. Vinks
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2011.11.003
Title:Lactose as a carrier for inhalation products: Breathing new life into an old carrier
Authors:C. MarriottH.W. Frijlink
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

pui:23244132
Title:The effect of basic physicochemical properties of aerosols on the development of complications at the inhalation therapy in patients with chronic pulmonary obstruction diseases
Authors:J. RuzickaL. KissA. KarpatiovaL. JakabM. TvarozekJ. Eisner
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

doi:10.4155/tde-2019-0009
Title:Pulmonary delivery of siRNA as a novel treatment for lung diseases
Authors:R. KandilO.M. Merkel
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

pui:6016606
Title:Effective mineral waters and drug solutions for aerosol inhalation treatment (Bulgarian)
Authors:S. Michailov
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

pui:41254259
Title:ACCP and ACAAI release guidelines on inhaled aerosol therapy for patients with pulmonary disease
Authors:A. Huntzinger
Absract:During the last decades, the importance of modeling and simulation in clinical drug development, with the goal to qualitatively and quantitatively assess and understand mechanisms of pharmacokinetic processes, has strongly increased. However, this increase could not equally be observed for orally inhaled drugs. The objectives of this review are to understand the reasons for this gap and to demonstrate the opportunities that mathematical modeling of pharmacokinetics of orally inhaled drugs offers. To achieve these objectives, this review (i) discusses pulmonary physiological processes and their impact on the pharmacokinetics after drug inhalation, (ii) provides a comprehensive overview of published pharmacokinetic models, (iii) categorizes these models into physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) and (clinical data-derived) empirical models, (iv) explores both their (mechanistic) plausibility, and (v) addresses critical aspects of different pharmacometric approaches pertinent for drug inhalation. In summary, pulmonary deposition, dissolution, and absorption are highly complex processes and may represent the major challenge for modeling and simulation of PK after oral drug inhalation. Challenges in relating systemic pharmacokinetics with pulmonary efficacy may be another factor contributing to the limited number of existing pharmacokinetic models for orally inhaled drugs. Investigations comprising in vitro experiments, clinical studies, and more sophisticated mathematical approaches are considered to be necessary for elucidating these highly complex pulmonary processes. With this additional knowledge, the PBPK approach might gain additional attractiveness. Currently, (semi-)mechanistic modeling offers an alternative to generate and investigate hypotheses and to more mechanistically understand the pulmonary and systemic pharmacokinetics after oral drug inhalation including the impact of pulmonary diseases.

pui:16005700
Title:Inhalation powder and oral salbutamol combination
Authors:K.P. DawsonC.E.M. UnterS. DeoD.M. Fergusson
Absract:Fifty six children with chronic asthma were treated with the inhaled dry powder of salbutamol or the combination of inhaled and oral salbutamol. Over three months the combination provided a significantly greater sustained symptomatic relief from asthma. Side effects were minimal and did not result in any withdrawals from the study.

pui:361571960
Title:Pharmaxis's product pipeline is progressing well
Authors:K.P. DawsonC.E.M. UnterS. DeoD.M. Fergusson
Absract:The good news keeps coming for Pharmaxis with the April receipt of the resubmission of its New Drug Application (NDA) for Aridol (mannitol inhalation powder), and less than a month later positive phase III results for Bronchitol.company, Angioblast Systems.

doi:10.3892/ijo.2015.3092
Title:New dry powders for inhalation containing temozolomide-based nanomicelles for improved lung cancer therapy
Authors:R. RosièreM. GelbckeV. MathieuP. Van AntwerpenK. AmighiN. Wauthoz
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

doi:10.1213/01.ANE.0000190745.29994.58
Title:Extravasation injury caused by propofol [10]
Authors:R. MahajanR. GuptaA. Sharma
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

doi:10.1016/s0091-6749(97)80030-9
Title:Flovent (fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol) [5] (multiple letters)
Authors:D.S. LevyJ.R. ThompsonS.M. HardingJ.B. Modrak
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

doi:10.1542/peds.2006-0900QQQ
Title:Safety of budesonide inhalation suspension in infants aged six to twelve months with mild to moderate persistent asthma or recurrent wheeze: Commentary
Authors:J. James
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

pui:23190672
Title:Becotide® Rotadisks® 0,1 mg/0,2 mg/0,4 mg and Sultanol® Rotadisks® 0,2 mg/0,4 mg, dry powder inhalation with the Diskhaler®
Authors:S. Nanz
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

doi:10.1038/s41551-021-00794-x
Title:Lipid nanoparticles for the inhalation of mRNA
Authors:R.Y.K. ChangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

pui:373382805
Title:Tobramycin inhalation solution (Bethkis) for cystic fibrosis
Authors:R.Y.K. ChangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Besides the numerous advantages of a chemotherapy administered by the inhalation route for lung cancer therapy, dry powder for inhalation (DPI) offers many advantages compared to other techniques and seems to be a technique that is well-adapted to an anticancer treatment. DPI formulations were developed using the cytotoxic drug temozolomide and a new folate-grafted self-assembling copolymer, a conjugate of three components, folate-polyethylene glycol-hydrophobically- modified dextran (F-PEG-HMD). F-PEG-HMD was synthesized using carbodiimide-mediated coupling chemistry in three main steps. F-PEG-HMD was characterized by 1H-NMR, mass spectrometry and thermal analysis. F-PEG-HMD presented a critical micellar concentration in water of 4x10-7 M. F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a trimodal particle size distribution with Z-average diameter of 83-1 nm in water. Temozolomide-loaded nanomicelles were prepared by solubilization of F-PEG-HMD in the presence of temozolomide. Temozolomide solubility in water was increased in the presence of F-PEG-HMD (2-fold increase in molar solubility) which could potentially lead to increased local concentrations in the tumor site. The temozolomideloaded F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles were characterized by a Z-average diameter of ∼50 to ∼60 nm, depending on the F-PEG-HMD concentration used. The nanomicelles were then spray-dried to produce dry powders. Temozolomide remained stable during all the formulation steps, confirmed by similar in vitro anticancer properties for the DPI formulations and a raw temozolomide solution. Two of the developed DPI formulations were characterized by good aerodynamic properties (with a fine particle fraction of up to 50%) and were able to release the F-PEG-HMD nanomicelles quickly in aqueous media. Moreover, in vitro, the two DPI formulations showed wide pulmonary deposition in the lower respiratory tract where adenocarcinomas are more often found. The present study, therefore, shows that F-PEG-HMD-based dry powders for inhalation could constitute an interesting drug delivery system able to release nanomicelles that are useful in adenocarcinomas that overexpress folate receptors.

doi:10.1136/adc.55.1.73
Title:Inhaled powder compared with aerosol administration of fenoterol in asthmatic children
Authors:S. ChambersJ. DunbarB. Taylor
Absract:Fenoterol as a powdered inhalation was shown to have a longer and stronger bronchodilator effect than the same dose inhaled from a standard metered dose aerosol in a double-blind placebo controlled cross-over study in 13 severely asthmatic children. The powder method of administration is free from many of the disadvantages of pressurised aerosols and may prove the method of choice in childhood.

doi:10.3109/10611869909085494
Title:Nebulizer-compatible liquid formulations for aerosol pulmonary delivery of hydrophobic drugs: Glucocorticoids and cyclosporine
Authors:B.A. KlyashchitskyA.J. Owen
Absract:This review discusses pulmonary delivery of glucocorticoids and cyclosporine in pharmaceutically acceptable organic solvents and liposomes, as well as in micellar solutions and microemulsions, by means of liquid aerosols generated by nebulizers. The review points out the importance of a variety of parameters for successful treatment of immunologically mediated lung diseases by inhalation of drug containing aerosols with particular references to physico-chemical properties of formulations, aerosol parameters, pharmacokinetics, and lung deposition in experimental animals and humans. The prospects for the use of these types of formulations for clinical treatment of asthma, lung transplant rejection processes and other lung diseases are summarized.

pui:361405442
Title:Pulmonary insulin delivery: Challenges and current status
Authors:K. WadherR. KalsaitM. Umekar
Absract:Insulin is usually administered to diabetic patients through subcutaneous injection. However, the various problems are encountered with subcutaneous insulin injection. Insulin cannot be administered via the oral route due to rapid enzymatic degradation in the stomach, inactivation and digestion by proteolytic enzymes, and poor permeability across intestinal epithelium.Hence various alternative routes for insulin delivery have been investigated. The most promising alternative route of insulin administration seems to be pulmonary delivery by inhalation. However, the issue of short duration of action of drugs delivered through this route has continued to challenge drug formulators and various strategies have been developed. This review gives a detailed, overview of the available literature on the safety and efficacy of inhaled insulin in pre-clinical and clinical trials. Additionally, the potential risks of inhaled insulin, in particular concerning insulin antibodies and lung function parameters will be discussed.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.05.036
Title:Formulation techniques for high dose dry powders
Authors:A.D. BrunaughH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:Delivery of drugs to the lungs via dry powder inhaler (DPI) is a promising approach for the treatment of both local pulmonary conditions and systemic diseases. Though DPIs are widely used for the pulmonary deposition of potent bronchodilators, anticholinergics, and corticosteroids, there is growing interest in the utilization of this delivery system for the administration of high drug doses to the lungs, as made evident by recent regulatory approvals for anti-microbial, anti-viral and osmotic agents. However, the formulation of high dose DPIs carries several challenges from both a physiological and physicochemical standpoint. This review describes the various formulation techniques utilized to overcome the barriers associated with the pulmonary delivery of high dose powders.

doi:10.1002/jlcr.1692
Title:Cigarettes labeled with [@sup_begin11@sup_endC]nicotine: Formulation and administration for PET inhalation
Authors:S.M. ApanaM.S. Berridge
Absract:The ultimate goal of this work was to relate nicotine kinetics in the brain after cigarette smoking to a feature of sensitization in drug addiction. To do this required a positron emission tomography study to measure the regional cerebral biodistribution kinetics of cigarette-smoked nicotine. This in turn required a cigarette formulated with carbon-11 labeled nicotine suitable for administration by single bolus inhalation. Here we report the development and validation of cigarettes formulated with [@sup_begin11@sup_endC]nicotine that were successfully used for single bolus administration by smoking. We also report measurements of nicotine delivery from smoked cigarettes. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

doi:10.15326/jcopdf.7.3.2019.0179
Title:Feasibility of aerosolized alpha-1-antitrypsin as a therapeutic option
Authors:O.S. Usmani
Absract:Inhalation therapy is integral in the management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Specifically, intravenous augmentation therapy is available to patients with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD), although there is insufficient alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) delivery to the lungs to modify airways inflammation. In contrast, the inhaled route allows replacement therapy to reach the target site of action and with higher AAT levels. Patients certainly support the inhalation route as an alternative to intravenous injections, obviating repetitive needle insertion and allowing treatment empowerment rather than dependency on traveling to specialized units. The difficulty with inhalation has been the ability to target the formulation to the pathophysiological site of disease: the emphysematous lung parenchyma of the small alveolated airways. Recent advances have suggested nebulizers as being able to deliver an adequate dose, consistently and reproducibly, and, coupled with developments in formulation science, allowed replacement therapy to reach the epithelial lining fluid of the small airways. The bench science has been translated to the first randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial to study the effects of nebulized AAT, which, although not meeting the primary endpoint of prolonging time to first exacerbation, showed this treatment modality was safe and achievable in a large patient cohort. Indeed, learning from this trial suggests the importance of choosing the right clinical endpoints, and recent key advances in lung physiology indices allow better assessment of the "silent zone"of small airways disease. Knowledge from other respiratory diseases will complement treating patients with AATD, where there is considerable innovation in aerosol science and inhalation medicine directed at utilizing the inhaled route. Indeed, it could be postulated that the inhaled route may not only achieve local pulmonary therapeutic benefit, but through systemic absorption and controlled pharmacokinetic profiling, the formulation may reach and treat liver disease. JCOPDF

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics8010006
Title:Development of liposomal ciprofloxacin to treat lung infections
Authors:D. CipollaJ. BlanchardI. Gonda
Absract:Except for management of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) in cystic fibrosis, there are no approved inhaled antibiotic treatments for any other diseases or for infections from other pathogenic microorganisms such as tuberculosis, non-tuberculous mycobacteria, fungal infections or potential inhaled biowarfare agents including Francisella tularensis, Yersinia pestis and Coxiella burnetii (which cause pneumonic tularemia, plague and Q fever, respectively). Delivery of an antibiotic formulation via the inhalation route has the potential to provide high concentrations at the site of infection with reduced systemic exposure to limit side effects. A liposomal formulation may improve tolerability, increase compliance by reducing the dosing frequency, and enhance penetration of biofilms and treatment of intracellular infections. Two liposomal ciprofloxacin formulations (Lipoquin® and Pulmaquin®) that are in development by Aradigm Corporation are described here.

doi:10.1016/j.jpba.2016.11.046
Title:Simultaneous HPLC assay for pretomanid (PA-824), moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide in an inhaler formulation for drug-resistant tuberculosis
Authors:M.A.M. MominS.J. ThienW. KrittapholS.C. Das
Absract:A simple and sensitive reversed phase HPLC method has been developed for the simultaneous quantitation of pretomanid (PA-824), moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide in a combination spray-dried powder formulation for inhalation, without any use of an internal standard. Good resolution of the analytes was achieved on a Luna C18 (2), 150 × 4.6 mm, 5 μm, 100 Å column using gradient elution with a mobile phase containing methanol and triethylamine phosphate buffer (pH 2.5) at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min in a total run time of 25 min. Pyrazinamide, moxifloxacin and pretomanid (PA-824) were detected at wavelengths (retention times) of 269 nm (3.80 min), 296 nm (7.94 min) and 330 nm (17.46 min), respectively. The assay was linear for all analytes in the concentration range 2.5–100 μg/mL (correlation coefficients >0.999) with LODs and LLOQs (μg/mL) of pretomanid (PA-824) 0.51 and 1.56, moxifloxacin 0.06 and 0.19 and pyrazinamide 0.35 and 1.06, respectively. Recoveries of the three drugs were 99.6–106.8% with intra- and inter-day precisions (as relative standard deviation) of <7%. The method was successfully applied to an evaluation of content uniformity and freedom from interference by L-leucine of a spray-dried combination powder for inhalation.

doi:10.1007/s11096-011-9602-2
Title:Crushing pills, an easy practice of an old problem? Evaluation of crushing practices in a geriatric long term care unit
Authors:M. AitichouS. SkalliA. FaudelM. NouvelS. ParatF. CostazM. BonnefoyC. Rioufol
Absract:Introduction Oral administration of a solid form drug to patients with swallowing disorders can be harmful. Crushing pills is one alternative practice largely applied but is not usually within the terms of their marketing authorisation. Certain drugs require a special attention when crushing due to a risk of serious unwanted effects or subtherapeutic doses for patients and to a safety risk for health professionals via inhalation or contact. We aimed to describe professional practices of nursing and medical staff caring for geriatric patients who are suffering from swallowing problems. Materials & Methods We conduct a prospective, observational study during three weeks in March 2011 in a geriatric long term care unit in university teaching hospital Lyon Sud, Lyon France. According to local guidance and drug monographs, we built a questionnaire with 45 items to assess drug crushing practices, crush material conformity and hygiene conditions of crushing drugs. Results Overall, a core group of one physician, five nurses and two auxiliary nurses have participated. Twenty three prescriptions were analyzed by clinical pharmacy staff. About 40 % of prescriptions had at least one drug with the mention “to be crush” or “to be open”. within a Half of these drugs should never be crushed for administration. Appropriate drug formulation alternative were available in 60 % of cases. Hygiene measures were not appropriately applied. Neither hydro alcoholic solution use nor care of the equipment was correctly performed. Pillboxes and worktops were not cleaned and crushing materials were not appropriate. Discussions, Conclusion These results are consistent with the need for a member of the pharmacy team to review drug therapy of every patient who presents swallowing disorders. This will enhance the recognition of the huge role of the clinical pharmacist in improving pharmaceutical care of patients by ensuring that drugs are administered in the safest and most effective manner.

doi:10.1023/A:1015973402316
Title:Optimized inhalation aerosols. II. Inertial testing methods for particle size analysis of pressurized inhalers
Authors:E.M. PhillipsP.R. ByronK. FultsA.J. Hickey
Absract:Pressurized metered dose inhaler (MDI) output from three different albuterol formulations was characterized using three inertial separation devices. results were compared for the Delron six-stage cascade impactor (DCI6), the Andersen Mark II eight-stage impactor (AC18), and Copley's twin-stage liquid impinger (LI). None of the devices tested in this study was ideal in all respects. All devices could differrentiate between formulations in terms of respirable doses (albuterol amount with aerodynamic diameters <5.5 through 6.4 μm). Only the high-flow rate LI could differentiate among all three formulations when data were presented in terms of respirable percentage (RP) of drug collected. Values for RP were in excellent agreement for the independently calibrated impactors when the same evaporation chamber was used atop the impactors. The LI appeared to overestimate values for RP in vivo. Results are discussed in light of the debate surrounding the revision of USP aerosol testing requirements. Rigorous specifications for evaporation chambers and methodologies are necessary for meaningful inter- and intra-laboratory comparison of results when any of these devices are used.

pui:21264176
Title:Lung deposition of 5 mg Intal from a pressurised metered dose inhaler assessed by radiotracer technique
Authors:S.P. NewmanA.R. ClarkN. TalaeeS.W. Clarke
Absract:Deposition from a pressurised metered dose inhaler (MDI) delivering 5 mg sodium cromoglycate (Intal 5, Fisons plc), has been measured by a Tc99m-labelling technique. Ten healthy volunteers inhaled: (i) from a standard MDI at 30 l/min; (ii) from a 10 cm spacer tube (Aerotube) at 30 l/min; and (iii) from the Aerotube at 100 l/min. A mean (SE) 8.8 (1.1)% of the dose was deposited in the lungs from the standard MDI, but this amount was not significantly changed either for slow inhalation (11.3 (1.9)%) or fast inhalation (7.1 (1.3)%) through the spacer. Lung deposition was lower than that observed previously for other canisters delivering smaller amounts of drug per metered dose. Oropharyngeal deposition fell from a mean 79% with standard MDI to a mean 29% with the spacer (P<0.05). It is concluded that a 10 cm tube spacer does not significantly enhance lung deposition of 5 mg Intal in subjects with good inhaler technique, but may reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal irritation, cough and unpleasant taste.

doi:10.1053/j.semnuclmed.2018.10.014
Title:Studies of Radioaerosol Deposition in the Respiratory Tract
Authors:P.C.L. KwokM. WallinM.B. DolovichH.-K. Chan
Absract:Deposition of aerosols in the respiratory tract can be quantitatively and qualitatively studied by scintigraphy. The most commonly used radionuclide for this purpose is technetium-99m. The effects of various factors on particle deposition have been investigated by using radiolabeled aerosols in the past decade. Most of these studies were in vivo but some were in vitro or ex vivo. The factors examined include particle size, formulation, inhaler design, inhalation flowrate, body posture, and gravity. They have been shown to influence pulmonary deposition, nasal high flow nebulization, and intranasal delivery. A thorough understanding of the various factors is required for the advancement of respiratory-drug delivery. Scintigraphy is a powerful technique that can assist in this regard.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Innovation in manufacturing as applied to dry powder inhaler formulation
Authors:D.A. WyattJ.S. KonerE.Z. DahmashA.R. Mohammed
Absract:An innovative process for development and manufacture of dry powder inhaler formulations is presented. The technology utilises a single stage, low mechanical-shear, ambient temperature, fluidisation process which conserves the physical and chemical integrity of all formulation components through control of well characterised process parameters. The technique's utility is demonstrated with commercially sourced micronised fluticasone propionate and inhalation grade lactoses (IGLs). A bench-scale manufacturing process produces formulations with excellent content uniformity from which controllable respirable dose (RD)/fine particle fraction (FPF) is delivered when aerosolised. A designed experiment utilising the principles of Quality by Design (QbD) shows that broad design spaces can be found with two different IGLs. Most surprisingly, a single product formula manufactured by this process can be tuned for RD/FPF through controlled variations in the critical process parameters. This holds out the tantalising prospect of tuneable dry powder formulation performance (dial-a-dose).

doi:10.7897/2230-8407.0712154
Title:Novel, sustained-release, dry-powder inhalable formulation for montelukast sodium
Authors:K. SathishkumarC. Kumaresan
Absract:The objective of this research is to improve therapy for asthma patients by developing a drug delivery platform for inhalation of a sustained-release, dry-powder formulation for Montelukast Sodium (MS). Montelukast Sodium microparticles were prepared with solvent evaporation process. The microspheres were then blended with an inhalable lactose additive (Lactohale), which acts as a carrier molecule in the formulation. Total four formulations A, B, C and D were prepared with 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4 ratio of MS:Eudragit RS100. The developed formulations were studied for physicochemical properties, in vitro drug relase and Anderson cascade impaction studies. Based on dissolution presentation, the 1:1 ratio of MS:Eudragit RS100 produces in vitro release 93.71% at 12 h and having particle size of microparticles (D@sub_begin0.5@sub_end μm) 4.92±0.7 and the pulmonary deposition of dry powder 38.4 ± 3.53 (respiratory fraction in percentage).

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.9b01085
Title:Development of an Excipient-Free Peptide Dry Powder Inhalation for the Treatment of Pulmonary Fibrosis
Authors:Y. ZhangB. MackenzieJ.J. KolengE. MaierZ.N. WarnkenR.O. Williams
Absract:The caveolin scaffolding domain peptide (CSP) is being developed for the therapeutic intervention of a lethal lung disease, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. While direct respiratory delivery of CSP7 (a 7-mer fragment of CSP) is considered an effective route, proper formulation and processing of the peptide are required. First, air-jet milling technology was performed in order to micronize the neat peptide powder. Next, the fine particles were subjected to a stability study with physical and chemical characterizations. In addition, the in vivo efficacy of processed CSP7 powder was evaluated in an animal model of lung fibrosis. The results revealed that, with jet milling, the particle size of CSP7 was reduced to a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 1.58 ± 0.1 μm and 93.3 ± 3.3% fine particle fraction, optimal for deep lung delivery. A statistically significant reduction of collagen was observed in diseased lung tissues of mice that received CSP7 powder for inhalation. The particles remained chemically and physically stable after micronization and during storage. This work demonstrated that jet milling is effective in the manufacturing of a stable, excipient-free CSP7 inhalation powder for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis.

doi:10.13040/IJPSR.0975-8232.4(12).4656-70
Title:Formulation and evaluation of engineered pharmaceutical fine particles of budesonide for dry powder inhalation (DPI) produced by amphiphilic crystallization technique: Optimization of process parameters
Authors:P.S. UttekarP.D. Chaudhari
Absract:The purpose of this study was to produce of microparticles for Dry Powder Inhalation, produced by environmentally driven Amphiphilic crystallization technique process by using different nonionic surfactants at different concentration and at different processing parameters, for inhalation therapy. Budesonide, as one of the inhaled glucocorticosteroids, is widely used in the treatment of asthma by pulmonary delivery.The objective of the current work was to developed microcrystals by using Amphiphilic crystallization process with different nonionic surfactants at different processing parameters. Salvation of Budesonide in aqueous Cremophor EL and Tween 20(1:1) was investigated using HPLC. A response surface type central composite design were employed using Design-Expert 5.0 software (StatEase, QD Consulting, Penzance, UK) with the factors investigated were stirrer speed, antisolvent addition rate, Cremophor EL and Tween 20. The crystals were filtered and freeze dried. Optimize the process variables for narrow particle size distribution (PSD). Cremophor EL and Tween 20 were added as the stabilizers. Freeze dried crystals were subjected to XRD, DSC and SEM analysis for stability. The PSD also depended on the balance of meso and micromixing determined by the crystallization conditions. Optimized formulation was identified and characterized to determine their suitability for pulmonary delivery by using MSLI. Optimized formulation showed the highest FPF loaded and FPF emitted of 42 (1%) and 69 (3%) respectively, depositing mainly on stages 3 and 4, with much lower amounts collected on the higher stages of the MSLI.© 2013.

doi:10.1023/A:1011977826711
Title:Protein deposition from dry powder inhalers: Fine particle multiplets as performance modifiers
Authors:P. LucasK. AndersonJ.N. Staniforth
Absract:Purpose. To evaluate the use of carrier-based dry powder aerosols for inhalation delivery of proteins and examine the effect of fine particle excipients as potential formulation performance modifiers. Methods. Bovine serum albumin (BSA) was co-processed with maltodextrin by spray-drying to produce model protein particles. Aerosol formulations were prepared by tumble mixing protein powders with α-lactose monohydrate (63-90 μm) or modified lactoses containing between 2.5 and 10% w/w fine particle lactose (FPL) or micronised polyethylene glycol 6000. Powder blends were characterised in terms of particle size distribution, morphology and powder flow. Formulation performance in Diskhaler® and Rotahaler® devices was investigated using a twin stage impinger operating at 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. Results. Inhalation performance of binary ordered mixes prepared using BSA-maltodextrin and lactose (63-90 μm) was improved by addition of FPL and micronised PEG 6000. For the addition of 5% w/w FPL the protein fine particle fraction (0.56.4 μm) using the Diskhaler® was increased from 31.7 ± 2.4% to 47.4 ± 2.2%. Inclusion of FPL and micronised PEG 6000 changed the bulk properties of inhalation powders and reduced powder flow but did not affect device emptying. Unexpectedly, improvements in performance were found to be independent of the order of addition of FPL to the ternary powder formulations. SEM studies revealed that this was probably the result of a redistribution of protein particles between the coarse carrier lactose component and added FPL during mixing. Conclusions. Fine particle excipients can be used to improve the performance of carrier-based protein dry powder aerosols. Mechanistically, enhancement of performance is proposed to result from a redistribution of protein particles from coarse carrier particles to the fine particle component in the ternary mix.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120768
Title:Pulmonary biofilm-based chronic infections and inhaled treatment strategies
Authors:L. DingJ. WangS. CaiH. SmythZ. Cui
Absract:Certain pulmonary diseases, such as cystic fibrosis (CF), non-CF bronchiectasis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and ventilator-associated pneumonia, are usually accompanied by respiratory tract infections due to the physiological alteration of the lung immunological defenses. Recurrent infections may lead to chronic infection through the formation of biofilms. Chronic biofilm-based infections are challenging to treat using antimicrobial agents. Therefore, effective ways to eradicate biofilms and thus relieve respiratory tract infection require the development of efficacious agents for biofilm destruction, the design of delivery carriers with biofilm-targeting and/or penetrating abilities for these agents, and the direct delivery of them into the lung. This review provides an in-depth description of biofilm-based infections caused by pulmonary diseases and focuses on current existing agents that are administered by inhalation into the lung to treat biofilm, which include i) inhalable antimicrobial agents and their combinations, ii) non-antimicrobial adjuvants such as matrix-targeting enzymes, mannitol, glutathione, cyclosporin A, and iii) liposomal formulations of anti-biofilm agents. Finally, novel agents that have shown promise against pulmonary biofilms as well as traditional and new devices for pulmonary delivery of anti-biofilm agents into the lung are also discussed.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2016.02.018
Title:Co-spray dried resveratrol and budesonide inhalation formulation for reducing inflammation and oxidative stress in rat alveolar macrophages
Authors:V. TrottaW.-H. LeeC.-Y. LooP.M. YoungD. TrainiS. Scalia
Absract:Oxidative stress is instrumental in the pathogenesis and progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Novel therapeutic strategies that target macrophages, based on the use of antioxidant compounds, could be explored to improve corticosteroid responses in COPD patients. In this study, inhalable microparticles containing budesonide (BD) and resveratrol (RES) were prepared and characterized. This approach was undertaken to develop a multi-drug inhalable formulation with anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities for treatment of chronic lung diseases. The inhalable microparticles containing different ratios of BD and RES were prepared by spray drying. The physico-chemical properties of the formulations were characterized in terms of surface morphology, particle size, physical and thermal stability. Additionally, in vitro aerosol performances of these formulations were evaluated with the multi-stage liquid impinger (MSLI) at 60 and 90 l/min, respectively. The cytotoxicity effect of the formulations was evaluated using rat alveolar macrophages. The biological responses of alveolar macrophages in terms of cytokine expressions, nitric oxide (NO) production and free radical scavenging activities were also tested. The co-spray dried (Co-SD) microparticles of all formulations exhibited morphologies appropriate for inhalation administration. Analysis of the deposition profiles showed an increase in aerosol performance proportional to BD concentration. Cell viability assay demonstrated that alveolar macrophages could tolerate a wide range of RES and BD concentrations. In addition, RES and BD were able to decrease the levels of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced alveolar macrophages. This study has successfully established the manufacture of Co-SD formulations of RES and BD with morphology and aerosol properties suitable for inhalation drug delivery, negligible in vitro toxicity and enhanced efficacy to control inflammation and oxidative stress in LPS-induced alveolar macrophages.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2013.07.006
Title:Single step spray drying method to develop proliposomes for inhalation: A systematic study based on quality by design approach
Authors:A. Patil-GadheV. Pokharkar
Absract:Quality by Design (QbD) is a systematic approach to develop drug products which includes evaluation of formulation parameters to achieve defined final product quality. In the present study principles of QbD were extended to the preparation, in-vitro and in-vivo performance of rifapentine-loaded proliposomes for pulmonary inhalation where final product needs to comply with specific properties. The rifapentine-loaded proliposomes for the treatment of tuberculosis were prepared in single step by spray drying method and independent variables were optimized using factorial design approach. Contour plots and multiple regression analysis were used to study the effect of selected independent variables on dependent variables. The effect of presence of drug: hydrogenated soya phosphatidylcholine (HSPC) and type of charged lipid in the formulation at three levels were studied on mass median diameter (MMD), liposomal vesicle size, % encapsulation efficiency (% EE), mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) and fine particle fraction (FPF) as critical quality attributes. Optimized formulation (R-LDPI-7) with drug: HSPC ratio of 1:2 and stearyl amine as charged lipid were found to give respirable proliposomes with MMAD of 1.56±0.16μm and FPF of 92.5±1.5%. Sustained drug release with Higuchi diffusion kinetics was achieved from liposomally encapsulated rifapentine. Pulmonary pharmacokinetics of optimized batch R-LDPI-7 revealed longer retention of drug in lungs with 7 fold increase in both, the mean residence time and t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end as compared to R-DPI-0. The study results demonstrated the application of QbD principles and design of experiment (DOE) approach to develop drug encapsulated proliposomes for inhalation by spray drying in single step. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.

doi:10.1080/03639040902769628
Title:The preparation and application of pulmonary surfactant nanoparticles as absorption enhancers in insulin dry powder delivery Pulmonary surfactant nanoparticles
Authors:Y. ZhangJ. ZhuY. TangX. ChenY. Yang
Absract:Aim: To study the preparation and application of pulmonary surfactant (PS) nanoparticles as absorption enhancers in insulin dry powder delivery. PS is a complex mixture of mainly phospholipids and proteins. The composition leads to a unique spreading effect of the surfactants as well as spontaneous nanoparticles formation, which may be favorable characteristics of pulmonary drug delivery systems. Method: In this article, insulin has been a model drug, as an important drug in lowering blood glucose and as a classic protein drug. PS was extracted from pig lungs and was observed as nanoparticles morphology in water by transmission electron microscopy after preparation. Inhalation dry powders were formulated by PS nanoparticles, insulin, and other excipients. In addition, blood glucose level of rats was determined when the insulin dry powder of PS group and control group was delivered by inhalation route. Result: Compared with control group, scanning electron microscopy showed that the dry powders of PS group possess similar particle size and smoother surface. The spray-dried powders re-suspended possessed similar nanoparticle appearance compared with the original PS suspension. Animal studies showed that blood glucose level was effectively reduced when the insulin dry powder of PS group was delivered by inhalation route. Compared with subcutaneous injection group (4 Ukg), the relative pharmacological bioavailability of the insulin dry powders of control group (14 Ukg) and PS group (14 Ukg) was 19.97 and 32.57, respectively. Conclusion: PS nanoparticles, as absorption enhancers used in dry powder inhalation, could evidently enhance the effect of insulin in lowering blood glucose. © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.07.011
Title:Assessment of nicotine release from nicotine-loaded chitosan nanoparticles dry powder inhaler formulations via locomotor activity of C57BL/6 mice
Authors:H. WangJ. HolgateS. BartlettN. Islam
Absract:Purpose: This study aimed to assess the activity of controlled release nicotine from dry powder inhaler formulation via locomotor activity of C57BL/6 mice. Methods: To achieve this we built a nose-only inhalation device for pulmonary administration of nicotine to mice and determined the optimal operational parameters. We used the locomotor activity test to compare the effects of the inhaled nicotine hydrogen tartrate-loaded chitosan nanoparticles (NHT-CS) with NHT in C57BL/6 mice. The minimum inhaled dose of NHT-CS required to alter locomotor activity was compared with inhaled and subcutaneously (s.c) injected NHT. Finally, histological examination of lung tissues was performed to ensure inhalation of NHT-CS did not cause lung damage. Results: We found a flow rate of 0.9 L/min and an exposure time of 5 min achieved optimal delivery of nicotine. A minimum of 0.88 mg inhaled of NHT-CS or 0.59 mg inhaled of NHT was required to alter locomotor activity similarly to injection of 0.5 mg/kg nicotine, suggesting the reformulation process did not alter the activity of NHT-CS. No differences between untreated and NHT-CS treated lung tissue upon histological examination were observed. Conclusions: The results indicated the inhaled NHT-CS is a viable preclinical option for developing novel inhalation formulations as a potential anti-smoking therapeutic.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Use of a test rig allows standardization of in vitro respirable dose testing with VHCS when incorporating short delays between actuation and inhalation
Authors:D. Von HollenN. CusickL. SlatorL.E.A. Hardaker
Absract:It is important to provide relevant in vitro test data concerning the performance of drug delivery devices under simulated clinically relevant conditions, to guide device selection. An in vitro test system designed to allow the determination of respirable delivered dose (fine particle dose;FPD <5lm) from valved holding chambers (VHCs) following a short delay between pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) actuation and simulated inhalation was tested using two brands of VHC and two pMDI bronchodilator drug formulations. Twenty VHCs of each brand (OptiChamber Diamond and Aero-Chamber Plus Flow-vu; OCD and ACPFv) were tested with each pMDI bronchodilator brand/formulation (Ventolin 100lg and ProAir 90lg) with a delay of 0s and 2s. A next generation impactor was combined with an in vitro test rig with a flow of 30 L/min. Following pMDI shake and actuation a microphone attached to the pMDI actuator allowed diversion of the flow via the VHC within [delay + <0.1s] of pMDI actuation. Ten actuations were made into each of 5 VHCs for each time delay and pMDI drug brand/formulation. NGI cups were eluted for quantification by HPLC. Respirable delivered dose as % label claim for each combination of test variables was; OCD[Ventolin-0s/2s=30.4/16.8] [ProAir-0s/2s=65.3/61.1], ACPFv[Ventolin-0s/2s=32.6/20.4] [ProAir-0s/2s=73.6/66.0]. Delay between pMDI actuation and inhalation resulted in a small difference in respirable delivered dose, but was outweighed by the large difference in respirable delivered dose due to choice of pMDI brand/formulation. There was only a small difference (<5lg) in respirable dose between VHC brands at 2s delay.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2011.576680
Title:Preparation and evaluation of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) microparticles as a carrier for pulmonary delivery of recombinant human interleukin-2: II. In vitro studies on aerodynamic properties of dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:B. DevrimA. BozkiirK. Canefe
Absract:Objective: The aim of this study was the preparation and evaluation of dry powder formulations of recombinant human interleukin-2 (rhIL-2)-loaded microparticles to be administered to the lung by inhalation. Methods: As indicated in our previous study, the microparticles were prepared by modified water-in-oil-in-water (w1/o/w3) double emulsion solvent extraction method using poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) polymers. The dry powder formulations were prepared with blending of microparticles and mannitol as a coarse carrier. The actual aerodynamic characteristics of the microparticles alone and prepared mixtures with mannitol are evaluated by using the eight-stage Andersen cascade impactor. Results: Due to the low tapped density of microparticles (<0.4g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end), the theoretical aerodynamic diameter (MMADt) values were calculated (<5 μm) on the basis of the geometrical particle diameter and tapped density values. The lowest tapped density value (0.17g/cm @sup_begin3@sup_end) belongs to the cyclodextrin-containing formulation. According to the results obtained using the cascade impactor, the emitted doses for all microparticle formulations were found to be rather high and during the aerosolization for all the formulations except F3 and F5, >90% of the capsule content was determined to be released. However, the actual aerodynamic diameter (MMADa) values were seen to be higher than the MMADt values. The blending of the microparticles with mannitol allowed their aerodynamic diameters to decrease and their fine particle fraction values to increase. Conclusion: The obtained results have shown that the mixing of rhIL-2-loaded microparticles with mannitol possess suitable aerodynamic characteristics to be administered to the lungs by inhalation. © 2011 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2004.06.002
Title:Effect of particle morphology on the triboelectrification in dry powder inhalers
Authors:M. MurtomaaV. MellinP. HarjunenT. LankinenE. LaineV.-P. Lehto
Absract:Electrostatic charge of lactoses of different particle morphology and amorphous contents were measured during actuation from two different dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Triboelectric studies may give important information when new inhaler devices, materials and formulations are designed in order to improve the drug deposition. Two inhalers, Taifun™ (Focus Inhalation Oy, Finland) and Clickhaler™ (Innovata Biomed Ltd., UK) were filled with lactose powders which were spray dried from different solutions or suspensions of lactose, ethanol and water. Differences in the amorphous contents were determined with isothermal microcalorimetry (IMC) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) and the particle morphology was examined with laser diffraction and electron microscopy (SEM). Samples were actuated from the inhalers at given intervals into the Faraday pail and the generated charges were recorded. Increase in the water concentration of the feed suspension had negligible effect on the charging until it exceeded 70%. Reproducibility of the measurement was found to be better with samples of homogenous particles and higher crystallinity while more amorphous samples with different morphology and wide particle size distribution showed change in the sign of the charge in addition to higher variations of the magnitude. In this study we show that different inhalers, as well as the morphology of the lactose powder, has noticeable effects on the generated charge which has previously been shown to affect the deposition of the drug and the function of an inhaler. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1208/s12249-015-0314-0
Title:Heat-Stable Dry Powder Oxytocin Formulations for Delivery by Oral Inhalation
Authors:K. FabioK. CurleyJ. GuarneriB. AdamoB. LaurenziM. GrantR. OffordK. KraftA. Leone-Bay
Absract:In this work, heat stable dry powders of oxytocin (OT) suitable for delivery by oral inhalation were prepared. The OT dry powders were prepared by spray drying using excipients chosen to promote OT stability including trehalose, isoleucine, polyvinylpyrrolidone, citrate (sodium citrate and citric acid), and zinc salts (zinc chloride and zinc citrate). Characterization by laser diffraction indicated that the OT dry powders had a median particle size of 2 μm, making them suitable for delivery by inhalation. Aerodynamic performance upon discharge from proprietary dry powder inhalers was evaluated by Andersen cascade impaction (ACI) and in an anatomically correct airway (ACA) model, and confirmed that the powders had excellent aerodynamic performance, with respirable fractions up to 77% (ACI, 30 L/min). Physicochemical characterization demonstrated that the powders were amorphous (X-ray diffraction) with high glass transition temperature (modulated differential scanning calorimetry, MDSC), suggesting the potential for stabilization of the OT in a glassy amorphous matrix. OT assay and impurity profile were conducted by reverse phase HPLC and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) after storage up to 32 weeks at 40°C/75%RH. Analysis demonstrated that OT dry powders containing a mixture of citrate and zinc salts retained more than 90% of initial assay after 32 weeks storage and showed significant reduction in dimers and trisulfide formation (up to threefold reduction compared to control).

doi:10.1007/s11095-010-0329-x
Title:Temozolomide-based dry powder formulations for lung tumor-related inhalation treatment
Authors:N. WauthozP. DeleuzeA. SaumetC. DuretR. KissK. Amighi
Absract:Purpose: Temozolomide dry powder formulations for inhalation, performed with no excipient or with a lipid or lactose coating, have been evaluated. Methods: The particle size of raw temozolomide in suspension was reduced by a high-pressure homogenizing technique, and the solvent was evaporated by spray-drying to obtain a dry powder. The physicochemical properties of this powder were evaluated and included its crystalline state, thermal properties, morphology, particle size and moisture and drug content, and these properties were determined by X-ray powder diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, scanning electron microscopy, laser light scattering, thermogravimetric analysis and high-performance liquid chromatography, respectively. The aerodynamic properties and release profiles were also evaluated using a multistage liquid impinger and a modified USP type 2 dissolution apparatus adapted for inhaler products, respectively. Results: The dry powder inhalation formulations had a high temozolomide content that ranged from 70% to 100% in the crystalline state and low moisture content. Aerodynamic evaluations showed high fine-particle fractions of up to 51% related to the metered dose. The dissolution profile revealed a similarly fast temozolomide release from the formulations. Conclusions: Dry temozolomide powder formulations, based on the use of acceptable excipients for inhalation and showing good dispersion properties, represent an attractive alternative for use in local lung cancer therapy. © 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1002/adma.201805116
Title:Inhaled Nanoformulated mRNA Polyplexes for Protein Production in Lung Epithelium
Authors:A.K. PatelJ.C. KaczmarekS. BoseK.J. KauffmanF. MirM.W. HeartleinF. DeRosaR. LangerD.G. Anderson
Absract:Noninvasive aerosol inhalation is an established method of drug delivery to the lung, and remains a desirable route for nucleic-acid-based therapeutics. In vitro transcribed (IVT) mRNA has broad therapeutic applicability as it permits temporal and dose-dependent control of encoded protein expression. Inhaled delivery of IVT-mRNA has not yet been demonstrated and requires development of safe and effective materials. To meet this need, hyperbranched poly(beta amino esters) (hPBAEs) are synthesized to enable nanoformulation of stable and concentrated polyplexes suitable for inhalation. This strategy achieves uniform distribution of luciferase mRNA throughout all five lobes of the lung and produces 101.2 ng g-1 of luciferase protein 24 h after inhalation of hPBAE polyplexes. Importantly, delivery is localized to the lung, and no luminescence is observed in other tissues. Furthermore, using an Ai14 reporter mouse model it is identified that 24.6% of the total lung epithelial cell population is transfected after a single dose. Repeat dosing of inhaled hPBAE-mRNA generates consistent protein production in the lung, without local or systemic toxicity. The results indicate that nebulized delivery of IVT-mRNA facilitated by hPBAE vectors may provide a clinically relevant delivery system to lung epithelium.

doi:10.1017/cem.2018.361
Title:Methanol poisoning by inhalation: A case series
Authors:H. YaworskiW. PalatnickC. OleschukS. RinglandM. Tenebein
Absract:Introduction: Methanol intoxication is a well-recognized toxicological emergency. While most cases of significant methanol poisoning occur via ingestion, there are reports in the literature of poisoning resulting from the inhalational route. We report a series of methanol intoxications secondary to inhalational abuse of a methanol containing lacquer thinner presenting to an inner city Emergency Department. Methods: A laboratory database was searched for methanol levels >5 mmol/L. (16mg/dL). from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2015. A chart review was completed to determine mode of poisoning, clinical presentation, treatment, and disposition. Results: We found 35 patients who made a total of 83 emergency department (ED) visits with a methanol level >5mmol/L. (16mg/dL). The methanol levels ranged from 5.3-39.6 mmol/L. (16.96-126.72 mg/dL). 73% of poisonings were secondary to inhalation of a methanol-containing lacquer thinner. The median age of these patients was 43 years, and 49% were male. The majority of patients (96%) resided in the core area. The most frequent chief complaints were substance abuse/intoxication, gastrointestinal complaints, and chest pain. 18% of patients described visual symptoms. Treatments were fomepizole only (59%), fomepizole plus hemodialysis (26%), and hemodialysis alone (2%). 49% of patients were discharged from the ED, while 28% and 23% were admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU) and an internal medicine ward respectively. There were no cases of blindness. We describe a cohort of patients who developed methanol poisoning from inhalation of a methanol containing lacquer thinner that required treatment with fomepizole and hemodialysis. While almost 1/3 of these patients were admitted to ICU, 49% were discharged from the emergency department after a course of fomepizole. The etiology of this outbreak was found to be a change in the formulation of the lacquer thinner, substituting a higher concentration of methanol for toluene. The manufacturer and a number of local retail outlets were contacted. This resulted in the product being taken off the shelves by the retail outlets, and eventually, a change in the product formulation by the manufacturer, with a resultant decrease in the methanol content. After these actions, we have not seen any additional presentations of inhalational methanol intoxication. Conclusion: We report the largest case series to date of patients who presented with methanol intoxication, requiring fomepizole and/or hemodialysis, secondary to inhalation of a methanol containing lacquer thinner. Physician advocacy regarding the etiology of this outbreak resulted in collaboration with retail outlets and subsequent action by the manufacturer. This ended the outbreak.

doi:10.4137/ccrpm.s10592
Title:Tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP): An efficient treatment strategy for the management of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis
Authors:J. LamS. VaughanM.D. Parkins
Absract:Repeated bouts of acute and chronic lung infections are responsible for progressive pulmonary function decline in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF), ultimately leading to respiratory failure and death. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the archetypical CF pathogen, causes chronic infection in 70% of individuals, and is associated with an accelerated clinical decline. The management of P. aeruginosa in CF has been revolutionized with the development and widespread use of inhaled antibiotics. Aerosol delivery of antimicrobial compounds in CF enables extremely high concentrations of antibiotics to be reached directly at the site of infection potentially overcoming adaptive resistance and avoiding the potential for cumulative systemic toxicities. Tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP) represents the first dry powder inhaled (DPI) antibiotic available for use in CF. DPIs are notable for a markedly reduced time for administration, ease of portability, and increased compliance. TIP has been developed as a therapeutic alternative to tobramycin inhalation solution (TIS), the standard of care for the past 20 years within CF. Relative to TIS 300 mg nebulized twice daily in on-and-off cycles of 28 days duration, TIP 112 mg twice daily via the T-326 inhaler administered on the same schedule is associated with marked time savings, increased patient satisfaction, and comparable clinical end points. TIP represents an innovative treatment strategy for those individuals with CF and holds the promise of increased patient compliance and thus the potential for improved clinical outcomes. © The author(s), publisher and licensee Libertas Academica Ltd.

doi:10.1007/s13346-018-0515-7
Title:Fragmented particles containing octreotide acetate prepared by spray drying technique for dry powder inhalation
Authors:A. HouL. LiY. HuangV. SinghC. ZhuX. PanG. QuanC. Wu
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) have been proposed as an alternative administration route for protein and peptide drugs. However, DPI particles are easy to aggregate due to the strong interactions between the particles, leading to poor aerosolization performance. In this study, fragmented particles containing octreotide acetate (OA) were prepared by spray drying technique for dry powder inhalation, which were expected to decrease the particle-particle interaction by reducing the contact sites. Mannitol and ammonium carbonate were used as protein stabilizer and fragment-forming agent, respectively. The obtained fragmented particles presented larger particle size, lower density, better dispersibility, and well in vitro aerodynamic behavior (emitted dose > 97%, fine particle fraction ≈ 40%). The circular dichroism spectrum results indicated that OA maintained the stability throughout the spray drying process. The relative bioavailability of dry powder inhalation (DPI) compared with subcutaneous injection of commercial product was up to 88.0%, demonstrating the feasibility of DPI for OA delivery. These results confirmed that the proposed fragmented particles had great potential for pulmonary delivery of protein and peptide drugs in a painless, rapid, and convenient manner.

doi:10.1080/713840401
Title:Incorporation of antibiotics in liposomes designed for tuberculosis therapy by inhalation
Authors:O.R. JustoÂ.M. Moraes
Absract:Liposomal encapsulation of tuberculostatic drugs can potentially increase their therapeutic index. The incorporation of isoniazid, pyrazinamide, rifampicin, ethionamide, and streptomycin in extruded distearoylphosphatidylcholine/cholesterol liposomes designed for administration through inhalation was evaluated. Ethionamide and rifampicin were incorporated during lipid film formation, whereas solutions of the remaining drugs were used to hydrate preformed lipid bilayers. Final drug to lipid ratios around 0.3 were achieved for isoniazid and pyrazinamide, and mean vesicle diameters varied from 286 to 329 nm. No expressive drug leakage or mean vesicle diameter changes occurred during 3 weeks. No significant incorporation was achieved for streptomycin, ethionamide, and rifampicin.

pui:13087196
Title:Administration forms of beta-sympathomimetic drugs
Authors:W. Bohning
Absract:Sympathomimetic drugs may be administered orally, intravenously, and subcutaneously, or they may be inhaled. Inhalation has a greater selectivity because of the lower dose. Intravenous and inhaled sympathomimetics cause equally significant changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and FVC. Only the severe asthma attack requires i.v. administration. When given orally, the drug's absorption is prolonged, and serum peaks are reached after 3-4 hours. Exercise-induced asthma is more efficiently hindered by inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. As regarding FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end there are no differences between IPPB inhalation and conventional pressurized aerosols when equivalent doses are administered. Since the use of pressurized aerosols requires correct technique, some patients must be excluded because of their poor coordination. The development of breath-actuated pressurized aerosols and the interposition of a dead space offer some advantages to the conventional pressurized aerosol. However, the development of insufflators for powder aerosol, has proven more important. The results of acute pharmacodynamic tests and long-term studies have demonstrated the value of this form of administration.

doi:10.1016/S1773-2247(11)50052-8
Title:In vivo safety and particokinetics of inhaled nanomedicines
Authors:M.C. JonesA. KumarD. SpinaB. ForbesC. PageL.A. Dailey
Absract:Nanomedicines for inhalation may have several formulation advantages including improving drug solubility and deposition kinetics. However, there remain many open questions regarding the safety and efficacy of inhaled nanomedicines. Recent studies have shown that drug delivery nanoparticles designed for inhalation therapy and composed of biodegradable, biocompatible materials (e.g. PLGA, solid lipid nanoparticles, cationic and anionic PEG-PLA) may have a reduced toxicity compared to poorly soluble, non-biodegradable nanoparticles. However, the formulation components of drug vehicles may have an impact of nanomedicine toxicity in the lung and must be carefidly controlled. Further, understanding the biodistribution kinetics of different nanoparticle materials will be crucial in determining both the safety and efficacy of potential nanomedicines for inhalation therapy. This article explores recent advances in the in vivo safety and particokinetic evaluations of inhaled nanomedicines.

doi:10.1161/circ.142.suppl_3.15742
Title:An Open-label, Multicenter Study of Flecainide Acetate Oral Inhalation Solution Shows Acute Conversion of Recent-onset, Symptomatic Atrial Fibrillation to Sinus Rhythm in a Dose- and Concentration-dependent Manner
Authors:H. CrijnsJ.N. RuskinA. ElvanN. Al-WindyY. TuiningaE. BadingsI. AksoyI.C. Van GelderJ. CammP.R. KoweyL. Belardinelli
Absract:Introduction: Oral and intravenous (IV) flecainide are recommended as first line therapy for pharmacological cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation (AF) in patients without known relevant structural heart disease. In the present open-label, dose-escalation study, the feasibility of using flecainide acetate inhalation solution (FlecIH) for acute conversion of recent-onset AF to sinus rhythm (SR) was evaluated.Hypothesis: We hypothesized that FlecIH quickly gives rise to plasma concentrations sufficient to rapidly restore SR in patients with recent-onset AFMethods: Patients (n=95) with symptomatic AF (for ≤ 48 hours) were enrolled and self-administered FlecIH using a breath-actuated nebulizer (30 mg [n=10], 60 mg [n=20], 90 mg [n=21], 120 mg [n=17], and 120 mg in a formulation containing saccharin [n=27]). Blood samples were collected for flecainide plasma concentrations, electrocardiograms were obtained, cardiac rhythm with a 4-hour Holter and vital signs were monitored, and adverse events (AEs) were recorded. Patients who did not convert to SR were offered alternative treatment per the investigator's discretion.Results: Conversion rates increased with dose and maximum plasma concentrations (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) of flecainide. At the highest dose, 45% of patients converted to normal SR. Patients with C@sub_beginmax@sub_end > 300 ng/mL had a conversion rate of 53% whereas those with C@sub_beginmax@sub_end < 200 ng/mL had a conversion rate of 33%. The median time to conversion was 3.5 min after FlecIH administration. AEs were typically mild and transient. Commonly reported AEs associated with inhalation of flecainide included: cough, throat pain, and throat irritation; at the highest dose with the formulation containing saccharin, these AEs were reported for 37%, 11%, and 4% of patients, respectively. Cardiac AEs consistent with those observed with oral and IV flecainide and considered serious were uncommon and included 2 post-conversion pauses and 1 bradycardia, and 1 atrial flutter with 1:1 atrioventricular conduction; none required treatment and all resolved without sequelae.Conclusions: FlecIH was well tolerated. Inhalation of FlecIH at the 120 mg dose yielded therapeutic plasma levels and conversion rates within the range reported for oral and IV administration.

doi:10.1016/j.ddstr.2011.07.001
Title:Formulation technology to repurpose drugs for inhalation delivery
Authors:D.C. CipollaI. Gonda
Absract:Inhalation of drugs for both medicinal and recreational purposes has occurred for centuries. Over the last two decades, a variety of new formulation technologies and inhaler devices have been developed to repurpose drugs given by other routes of administration as superior inhalation products with improvements in safety, efficacy and convenience for patients. These efforts have been particularly successful for drugs for the treatments of diseases of the respiratory tract. The delivery precision, safety, tolerability and efficacy of many different drugs given by inhalation for systemic effect using these modern inhalation delivery technologies was shown to equal or exceed that for the parenteral route of administration. It is expected that more wide-spread use of this route for systemic delivery will be accepted as some of the products currently in late stage development reach the market. © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1208/s12249-021-02159-8
Title:The Influence of Relative Humidity and Storage Conditions on the Physico-chemical Properties of Inhalation Grade Fine Lactose
Authors:M. Stankovic-BrandlS. ZellnitzP. WirnsbergerM. KoblerA. Paudel
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are favorable devices for the delivery of dry formulations to the lungs; still, they largely fail to deliver higher doses of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) to the lower airways. Addition of fine particles of excipient (fines) to the blend of API and carrier was shown to improve aerosolization performance. Lactose monohydrate is ubiquitous excipient used for this purpose. Lactose exists in a thermodynamically stable crystalline form; however, processes like milling, sieving, or even mixing may induce alteration of crystalline structure and introduce amorphous domains, which could further affect the physico-chemical properties of the material. Therefore, the aim of this work is a detailed characterization of two commercially available types of inhalation grade fine lactose powders (Inhalac 400 and Inhalac 500) prepared using different air-jet milling parameters, with a focus on impact of storage conditions on material properties. We found that the different milling parameters resulted in variable particle size distribution (PSD), and thus surface areas, variable initial amorphous content, cohesivity, flowability, and moisture sorption of materials. In addition, exposure of fine powders to higher humidity reduced the amorphous content present in the materials, but also affected agglomeration tendency and dispersion behavior of both powders. We believe the obtained findings to be important for the aerosolization performance of carrier-based DPIs containing fines and thus need to be duly considered during formulation development. Graphical Abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:RespiCell™: An innovative dissolution apparatus for inhaled products investigation
Authors:E. QuartaV. ChiericiM. RagaioloG. VaraccaF. SonvicoF. Buttini
Absract:In vitro dissolution studies were conducted to test a new method able to discriminate the dissolution behavior between three test formulations of tiotropium bromide (TB) and the relevant Reference Product (SPIRIVA® HandiHaler® 18 μg) after deposition in the lungs. All the three test formulations showed an aerodynamic in vitro equivalence having FPD and FPF within the ±15% limit of reference product. Dissolution profiles were obtained using an innovative dissolution apparatus, RespiCell™, a novel vertical diffusion cell developed at the University of Parma capable to investigate the dissolution behavior of inhalation products respirable fraction (< 5 μm). TB formulations dissolution rate were examined in terms of fraction and overall amount dissolved over time, using the difference (f1) and similarity factors (f2) already proposed by FDA to assess the dissolution testing of immediate release solid oral dosage forms. The dissolution profiles of three test formulations were very similar, but (f1) and (f2) factors evidenced that two batches present dissolution profiles different compared to the reference product while for the batch F1-825 confirm similarity with reference. Subsequently GMP-batches were assessed and, in this case, (f1) and (f2) factors showed that these batches have a more rapid dissolution profiles than reference product profile, although a similarity in terms of TB particle size distribution. RespiCell™ demonstrated to be capable to discriminate the dissolution behavior of inhalation products with similar respirability hence a useful tool to predict in vivo PK equivalence of generic-reference formulation.

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2018.PA3038
Title:Inhaled liposomal iloprost shows high drug encapsulation, extended release profile and potentials of improving patient compliance
Authors:P. KanK.-J. ChenC.-F. HsuY.-F. Lin
Absract:Background: Iloprost is a prostacyclin (PGI@sub_begin2@sub_end) analog for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. The iloprost inhalation product, Ventavis®, has a short plasma half-life and requires frequent dosing (6-9 times per day). Moreover, iloprost therapy is associated with a number of side effects. AIM: To reduce dosing frequency, alleviate side effects, and provide sustained plasma concentration, Pharmosa Biopharm Inc (PBI) developed a liposomal iloprost formulation through oral inhalation. Methods: A series of liposomal iloprost formulations were prepared and characterized in terms of encapsulation efficiency and in-vitro release. The extended release formulations were selected for preclinical pharmacokinetic (PK) study through pulmonary delivery by microsprayer. Blood samples over 12 hours post-dosing were taken and analyzed by LC-MS-MS. Results: Liposomal iloprost solution is comprised of sub-micron sized liposomes which are stable sufficiently for practical daily use. Also, liposomes maintained stable in terms of encapsulation and hydrodynamic particle size after nebulization. The formulations achieved a high concentration with encapsulation efficiency greater than 90%. In-vitro release test in simulated lung fluid (SLF) indicated no-burst and sustained release. In PK study, plasma peak (Cmax) is several-fold lower than the iloprost solution. Conclusion: A stable liposomal iloprost solution demonstrates a sustained-release profile and no burst release in-vitro and in-vivo. It is expected to extend therapeutic effect as well as mitigate drug-related side-effects with fewer inhalations per day, then improving quality of life and patient compliance.

doi:10.1016/j.rmr.2018.02.001
Title:Inhaled chemotherapy – Part 1: General concept and current technological challenges
Authors:R. RosièreJ. HureauxV. LevetK. AmighiN. Wauthoz
Absract:Despite severe adverse effects, chemotherapy is still widely used in the treatment of lung tumors, including primary lung tumors and metastases. In order to reduce the risk of harm and to intensify treatment responses, several strategies have been described recently. These include the use of nanomedicine-based chemotherapies and pulmonary drug delivery. However, to treat lung tumors, inhalation cannot be effective and safe without an adaptation of current inhalation techniques, i.e. inhalation devices and drug formulations. This can be very challenging. This review presents recent preclinical developments that could address the limitations observed with aerosolized chemotherapy. The solutions involve the use of dry powder inhalers and advanced drug formulations, such as controlled and sustained release formulations and nanomedicine-based formulations.

doi:10.1080/10611860802201134
Title:Spray-freeze-dried dry powder inhalation of insulin-loaded liposomes for enhanced pulmonary delivery
Authors:R. BiW. ShaoQ. WangN. Zhang
Absract:Nowadays, growing attention has been paid to the pulmonary region as a target for the delivery of peptide and protein drugs, especially macromolecules with systemic effect like insulin, since the pulmonary route exhibits numerous benefits to be an alternative for repeated injection. Furthermore, encapsulation of insulin into liposomal carriers is an attractive way to increase drug retention time and control the drug release in the lung; however, its long-term stability during storage in the reservoir and the process of aerosolization might be suspected when practically applied. Thus, the aim of this study was to design and characterize dry powder inhalation of insulin-loaded liposomes prepared by novel spray-freeze-drying method for enhanced pulmonary delivery. Process variables such as compressed air pressure, pump speed, and concentration were optimized for parameters such as mean particle diameter, moisture content, and fine particle fraction of the produced powders. Influence of different kinds and amounts of lyoprotectants was also evaluated for the best preservation of the drug entrapped in the liposome bilayers after the dehydration-rehydration cycle. The in vivo study of intratracheal instillation of insulin-loaded liposomes to diabetic rats showed successful hypoglycemic effect with low blood glucose level and long-lasting period and a relative pharmacological bioavailability as high as 38.38% in the group of 8 IU/kg dosage.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2006.05.009
Title:Drug/lactose co-micronization by jet milling to improve aerosolization properties of a powder for inhalation
Authors:K. GiryJ.M. PéanL. GiraudS. MarsasH. RollandP. Wüthrich
Absract:The aim of this work was to formulate a powder for inhalation with fusafungine, a drug substance initially highly cohesive. The classical approach based on micronization by jet milling to prepare respirable drug particles and then blending with a carrier was first applied. A fractional factorial experimental design was implemented to screen six formulation parameters. The effect of drug/lactose co-micronization on aerosolization was then evaluated. In vitro deposition studies were performed with the twin stage glass impinger and the inhaler Spinhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end. Micronization did not induce DSC-detectable amorphization and gave a highly cohesive, poor flowable powder with a theoretical aerodynamic diameter of 5 μm. The powder was then blended with coarse lactose and optionally fine lactose. Unfortunately, the respirable fraction could not be optimized and remained below 10%. On the other hand, a co-micronized powder drug/fine lactose 50:50 gave a respirable fraction of 16%. Following blending with a carrier, the respirable fraction and the emitted dose fraction reached 23% and 69%, respectively. The use of a fine lactose grade for co-micronization was essential. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that co-micronization with a fine lactose is an efficient and simple strategy to formulate a powder for inhalation with enhanced aerosolization properties, especially for highly cohesive drug substance. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/08942680150506330
Title:Inhalation therapy of the future - How will it change the way we treat asthma?
Authors:J. Lötvall
Absract:Inhalation of drugs has made a great difference in terms of optimizing asthma therapy. The challenge for the next generation of inhalers will be to provide still greater benefits to patients in terms of efficacy, safety, and convenience. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are innovative new inhalation devices and comparisons with pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) show that DPIs are at least as efficient at delivering drugs, and may be a superior delivery device for some drugs. To compare different inhaler devices, drug dose comparisons that lie on the slope of the dose-response curve should be selected, and it is important to analyze the risk:benefit ratio (therapeutic ratio). Some of the new devices contain aerosols with a smaller particle size than current designs. Monodispersed aerosols with a very narrow range of particle sizes may target drug delivery to specific areas of the lung where it is most effective. However, as smaller particles are more easily absorbed into the pulmonary circulation via the alveoli, these formulations may be associated with a higher incidence of systemic side effects. The optimal particle size required to maximize the therapeutic ratio of a molecule may be different for a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist than for an inhaled corticosteroid. A greater understanding of this relationship will be required if we are to achieve better drug targeting with future inhalers.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2008.0714
Title:Lung deposition of a liposomal cyclosporine a inhalation solution in patients after lung transplantation
Authors:J. BehrG. ZimmermannR. BaumgartnerH. LeuchteC. NeurohrP. BrandC. HerpichK. SommererJ. SeitzG. MengesS. TillmannsM. Keller
Absract:Background: Bronchiolitis obliterans is the most important long-term sequelae of lung transplantation limiting survival. Optimized immunosuppression, including inhalation of cyclosporine A (CsA), may be a promising approach to overcome this problem. Methods: In this study a liposomal CsA solution was characterized in vitro, doses of 10 and 20 mg were inhaled with the PARI eFlow@sup_begin®@sup_end inhaler by 12 stable lung transplant recipients, and lung deposition was evaluated by gamma scintigraphy. Results: Inhalation of CsA leads to lung deposition of 40 ± 6% (10 mg) and 33 ± 7% (20 mg), respectively. This deposition resulted in a peripheral lung dose of 2.0 ± 0.4 mg (10 mg) and 3.4 ± 0.8 mg (20 mg), respectively. Extrathoracic deposition was 16 ± 6% (10 mg) and 14 ± 4% (20 mg), respectively, and the total deposition was calculated with 56% (10 mg) and 46% (20 mg). Lung deposition and peripheral lung deposition increased significantly with treatment time. The maximum CsA blood concentration and the area under the time course of blood concentration correlated with peripheral lung deposition. There were no statistically significant differences between patients with single- and double-lung transplantation. Inhalation of the study medication was well tolerated, and led to only minor but statistically significant changes in lung function parameters (FEV1: -0.07 L; FVC: -0.09 L; sRaw: +0.35 kPa s.). Conclusions: The new liposomal CsA PARI formulation can be deposited to the peripheral lung using the PARI eFlow@sup_begin®@sup_end nebulizer. The treatment was well tolerated, and no drug-related side effects were observed. Once or twice daily dosing of 10 mg CsA A PARI would result in a sufficient peripheral lung deposition of approximately 14 and 28 mg/week, respectively. © 2009 Mary Ann Liebert, Inc..

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2005.11.030
Title:Air classifier technology (ACT) in dry powder inhalation: Part 3. Design and development of an air classifier family for the Novolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end multi-dose dry powder inhaler
Authors:A.H. De BoerP. HagedoornD. GjaltemaJ. GoedeH.W. Frijlink
Absract:In this study, the design of a multifarious classifier family for different applications is described. The main design and development steps are presented as well as some special techniques that have been applied to achieve preset objectives. It is shown by increasing the number of air supply channels to the classifier chamber (from 2 to 8), that the fine particle losses from adhesion onto the classifier walls can be reduced from 75% to less than 5% of the real dose for soft (spherical) agglomerates. By applying a bypass flow that is arranged as a co-axial sheath of clean air around the aerosol cloud from the classifier, the airflow resistance of the classifier can be controlled over a relatively wide range of values (0.023-0.041 kPa@sup_begin0.5@sup_end min l @sup_begin-1@sup_end). This, without affecting the fine particle dose or increasing the fine particle losses in the inhaler. Moreover, the sheath flow can be modelled to reduce the depositions in the induction port to the cascade impactor or in the patient's mouth, which are the result of back flows in these regions. The principle of powder induced pressure drop reduction across a classifier enables assessment of the amount of powder in the classifier at any moment during inhalation, from which classifier loading (from the dose system) and discharge rates can be derived. This principle has been applied to study the residence time of a dose in the classifier as function of the carrier size fraction and the flow rate. It has been found that this residence time can be controlled in order to obtain an optimal balance between the generated fine particle fraction and the inhalation manoeuvre of the patient. A residence time between 0.5 and 2 s at 60 l/min is considered favourable, as this yields a high fine particle dose (depending on the type of formulation used) and leaves sufficient inhaled volume for particle transport into the deep lung. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2020.06.001
Title:Inhalation delivery technology for genome-editing of respiratory diseases
Authors:M.Y.T. ChowR.Y.K. ChangH.-K. Chan
Absract:The clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9) system has significant therapeutic potentials for lung congenital diseases such as cystic fibrosis, as well as other pulmonary disorders like lung cancer and obstructive diseases. Local administration of CRISPR/Cas9 therapeutics through inhalation can achieve high drug concentration and minimise systemic exposure. While the field is advancing with better understanding on the biological functions achieved by CRISPR/Cas9 systems, the lack of progress in inhalation formulation and delivery of the molecule may impede their clinical translation efficiently. This forward-looking review discussed the current status of formulations and delivery for inhalation of relevant biologics such as genes (plasmids and mRNAs) and proteins, emphasising on their design strategies and preparation methods. By adapting and optimising formulation strategies used for genes and proteins, we envisage that development of inhalable CRISPR/Cas9 liquid or powder formulations for inhalation administration can potentially be fast-tracked in near future.

doi:10.4187/respcare.06153
Title:Nebulized mannitol, particle distribution, and cough in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
Authors:P.M. KanthC. AlaieniaG.C. Smaldone
Absract:BACKGROUND: Inhaled interferon, a potential treatment for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, must be formulated with mannitol, which can cause bronchospasm and cough. Coughing during drug inhalation can be affected by many factors, but some factors are fixed by the needs of the formulation and inflammatory disease in the airways. A component of the cough response may be related to sites of deposition, particularly upper and central airways. If deposition sites are important, then manipulating the particle distribution of the aerosol may mitigate coughing. To design a therapeutic formulation and delivery system for formulations that contain mannitol, we tested the effect of particle distribution on cough during mannitol inhalation in volunteers with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. METHODS: A solution of mannitol was formulated to match requirements for future interferon formulations (40 mg/mL, 220 mOsm/L). Mannitol aerosols were generated by using different nebulizers providing particle distributions that were expected to vary upper airway deposition. The nebulizer fill volume was adjusted to correct for differences in nebulizer efficiency with a target inhaled mass of 20 mg. Particle distributions were measured by cascade impaction (mass median aerodynamic diameters, 1.2 and 6.5 μm). Seven subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis participated in the study. To maximize deposition, the subjects were trained to inhale slowly and deeply (6 s inspiration). Spirometry was measured before and after inhalation. The study was carried out on separate days (day 1: 1.2 μm; day 2: 6.5 μm), and the pattern of coughing was observed. RESULTS: Coughing was often spontaneous and provoked by spirometry. When inhaling the 1.2-μm distribution, no subject coughed during inhalation. Six of the seven subjects coughed when inhaling the 6.5-μm particles. Spirometry was unaffected. CONCLUSIONS: In subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, nebulized mannitol can cause coughing. Modifying the aerosol distribution prevents coughing during mannitol inhalation. Mannitol aerosols can be inhaled safely without bronchospasm. These data serve to inform future formulation and/or device combinations for planned interferon therapy.

doi:10.1007/s12247-017-9285-x
Title:Assistance for Predicting Deposition of Tranilast Dry Powder in Pulmonary Airways by Computational Fluid Dynamics
Authors:K. KadotaT. NishimuraY. NakatsukaK. KuboY. Tozuka
Absract:Purpose: Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation was performed to predict deposition behavior of the dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation in a pulmonary airway model. A synergistic study on CFD simulation and sample preparation with highly branched cyclic dextrin (HBCD) as an excipient matrix for dry powder inhaler formulations of tranilast (TL) were performed. Methods: The crystal form of TL in spray-dried particles was characterized by powder X-ray diffraction and fluorescence spectroscopy. The aerodynamic performance of DPI formulations was assessed using the Andersen cascade impactor. CFD simulations could simulate the movement of fluids by resolving the mathematic equations governing the movement following Navier-Stokes equations. Particle behavior and deposition from CFD analysis compared with experimental data. Results: Spray-dried particles (SDPs) of TL/HBCD showed characteristic diffraction peaks differing from untreated TL crystalline in powder X-ray diffraction. The polymorphic transition of TL was also observed in a fluorescence spectrum. Cascade impactor evaluation on SDPs of TL/HBCD at a 40% ethanol ratio demonstrated high inhalation performance with a fine particle fraction of 33%, while SDPs prepared at a 30% ethanol ratio were lower than that of the others. Regarding the cause of this difference, CFD analysis revealed that high inhalation performance was related to the true density and particle size of SDPs. The change in true density of TL associated with polymorphic transition would affect the inhalation performance. Conclusion: The results on CFD simulations made a prediction about the particle behavior or deposition in pulmonary airways.

doi:10.3389/fimmu.2019.02760
Title:Inhalation of Immuno-Therapeutics/-Prophylactics to Fight Respiratory Tract Infections: An Appropriate Drug at the Right Place!
Authors:T. SécherA. MayorN. Heuzé-Vourc'h
Absract:Purpose: Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation was performed to predict deposition behavior of the dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation in a pulmonary airway model. A synergistic study on CFD simulation and sample preparation with highly branched cyclic dextrin (HBCD) as an excipient matrix for dry powder inhaler formulations of tranilast (TL) were performed. Methods: The crystal form of TL in spray-dried particles was characterized by powder X-ray diffraction and fluorescence spectroscopy. The aerodynamic performance of DPI formulations was assessed using the Andersen cascade impactor. CFD simulations could simulate the movement of fluids by resolving the mathematic equations governing the movement following Navier-Stokes equations. Particle behavior and deposition from CFD analysis compared with experimental data. Results: Spray-dried particles (SDPs) of TL/HBCD showed characteristic diffraction peaks differing from untreated TL crystalline in powder X-ray diffraction. The polymorphic transition of TL was also observed in a fluorescence spectrum. Cascade impactor evaluation on SDPs of TL/HBCD at a 40% ethanol ratio demonstrated high inhalation performance with a fine particle fraction of 33%, while SDPs prepared at a 30% ethanol ratio were lower than that of the others. Regarding the cause of this difference, CFD analysis revealed that high inhalation performance was related to the true density and particle size of SDPs. The change in true density of TL associated with polymorphic transition would affect the inhalation performance. Conclusion: The results on CFD simulations made a prediction about the particle behavior or deposition in pulmonary airways.

doi:10.1248/cpb.45.911
Title:The development of a cascade impactor simulator based on adhesion force measurements to aid the development of dry powder inhalations
Authors:F. Podczeck
Absract:Adhesion and friction forces are the main physical factors determining the re-suspension of a micronized drug from carrier particles during inhalation. Hence, it appears useful to link adhesion and friction force measurements to the in vitro testing of dry powder inhalations, namely the assessment of the mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) using an eight- stage Andersen cascade impactor. Interactive mixtures of micronized Salmeterol Xinafoate adhered to irrespirable lactose monohydrate carrier particles were used as model dosage forms. The adhesion force between the drug and carrier particles was assessed using a centrifuge technique, and the MMAD was determined under standardized working conditions using the Andersen- Cascade impactor (Mark II). A cascade impactor simulator (CIS), which is a computer program containing a re-suspension model to assess the amount of drug detached from the carrier particles during inhalation, was developed and validated using the experimental data. It could be shown, that the CIS provided a good estimate of the loss of drug due to adhesion to the carrier particles and the loss of drug on the cascade impactor walls. Small deviations between the theoretical and experimental mass median aerodynamic particle diameters however were found. These deviations were shown to be mainly due to the experimental error introduced by the cascade impactor, and that the error due to the experimental adhesion measurements is negligibly small. Hence, the CIS developed could be a useful tool in early development stages of dry powder inhalations to predict the in vitro aerodynamic performance of drug particles.

doi:10.1007/s11095-012-0779-4
Title:New respirable and fast dissolving itraconazole dry powder composition for the treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis
Authors:C. DuretN. WauthozT. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:Purpose Novel itraconazole (ITZ)-based dry powders for inhalation (DPI) were optimized for aerodynamic and dissolution properties and contained excipients that are acceptable for inhalation. Methods The DPI were produced by spray drying solutions. The drug content, crystallinity state, and morphological evaluation of the dry powders were determined by high performance liquid chromatography, powder X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, and scanning electron microscopy, respectively. A particle size analysis was conducted using laser light scattering. The aerodynamic behaviors of the powders were characterized by impaction tests. ITZ dissolution rates were evaluated using a dissolution method adapted to inhaled products. Results The DPI presented very high fine particle fractions that ranged from 46.9% to 67.0% of the nominal dose. The formulations showed very fast dissolution rates compared to unformulated crystalline ITZ with the possibility of modulating the dissolution rate by varying the quantity of phospholipids (PL) incorporated. ITZ remained amorphous while the mannitol was crystalline. The a, β and d-mannitol polymorph ratios varied depending on the formulation compositions. Conclusion This formulation strategy could be an attractive alternative for treating invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. The ITZ and PL content are key characteristics because of their influence on the dissolution rate and aerosol performance. ©Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2018.08.001
Title:Phage therapy for respiratory infections
Authors:R.Y.K. ChangM. WallinY. LinS.S.Y. LeungH. WangS. MoralesH.-K. Chan
Absract:A respiratory infection caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria can be life-threatening. In recent years, there has been tremendous effort put towards therapeutic application of bacteriophages (phages) as an alternative or supplementary treatment option over conventional antibiotics. Phages are natural parasitic viruses of bacteria that can kill the bacterial host, including antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Inhaled phage therapy involves the development of stable phage formulations suitable for inhalation delivery followed by preclinical and clinical studies for assessment of efficacy, pharmacokinetics and safety. We presented an overview of recent advances in phage formulation for inhalation delivery and their efficacy in acute and chronic rodent respiratory infection models. We have reviewed and presented on the prospects of inhaled phage therapy as a complementary treatment option with current antibiotics and as a preventative means. Inhaled phage therapy has the potential to transform the prevention and treatment of bacterial respiratory infections, including those caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

doi:10.1517/17425240802637862
Title:Targeting drugs to the airways: The role of spacer devices
Authors:F. LavoriniG.A. Fontana
Absract:Aim: Spacer devices are inhalation aids of varying dimension and complexity, specifically designed to overcome problems with the use of pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). The aim of this review is to examine the current understanding about these inhalation devices and discuss their advantages and disadvantages. Methods: The pertinent literature concerning the characteristics and effects of spacers on delivery and lung deposition of inhaled medications, as well as their clinical efficacy in patients with reversible airway obstruction, is examined. Results: Spacers minimise problems of poor inhalation technique with pMDI, reduce oropharyngeal deposition and increase lung deposition. Spacers improve the clinical effect of inhaled medications, especially in patients unable to use a pMDI properly. Compared to both pMDIs and dry-powder inhalers, spacers may increase the response to β-adrenergic bronchodilators, even in patients with correct inhalation technique. A pMDI plus spacer has proven to be viable lower cost alternative to the use of a nebuliser for delivering large bronchodilator doses in patients with severe acute asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The use of large-volume spacers is recommended for delivering high doses of inhaled corticosteroids, and may permit a lower maintenance dose to be used. Conclusion: pMDIs may be routinely fitted with a spacer, especially in situations where correct pMDI use is unlikely. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1163/156856208783721038
Title:Toxicological evaluation of lactose and chitosan delivered by inhalation
Authors:M.J. De Jesús ValleR.J. Dinis-OliveiraF. CarvalhoM.L. BastosA.S. Navarro
Absract:These days, inhalation constitutes a promising administration route for many drugs. However, this route exhibits unique limitations, and formulations aimed at pulmonary delivery should include as few as possible additives in order to maintain lung functionality. The purpose of this work was to investigate the safety of lactose and chitosan to the pulmonary tissue when delivered by inhalation. The study was carried out with 18 Wistar rats divided in three groups receiving distilled water, lactose or chitosan. A solution of each excipient was administered by inhalation at a dose of 20 mg. The lungs were excised and processed to determine several biochemical parameters used as toxicity biomarkers. Protein and carbonyl group content, lipid peroxidation, reduced and oxidized glutathione (GSSG), myeloperoxidase (MPO), cooper/zinc and manganese superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione S-transferase and glutathione peroxidase were determined. Results of myeloperoxidase activity and glutathione disulfide lung concentrations showed a relevant decrease for chitosan group compared to control: 4.67 ± 2.27 versus 15.10 ± 7.27 (P = 0.011) for MPO and 0.89 ± 0.68 versus 2.02 ± 0.22 (P = 0.014) for GSSG. The other parameters did not vary significantly among groups. Lactose and chitosan administered by inhalation failed to show toxic effects to the pulmonary tissue. A protective effect against oxidative stress might even be attributed to chitosan, since some biomarkers had values significantly lower than those observed in the control group when this product was inhaled. Nevertheless, caution must be taken regarding chemical composition and technological processes applied to incorporate these products during drug formulation, in particular for dry powder inhalators. © Koninklijke Brill NV, 2008.

doi:10.22159/ajpcr.2021.v14i1.40288
Title:Single-blind, randomized, control trial of a unani compound formulation in iltehab tajaweefe anaf muzmin
Authors:Z. ZaidiA.A. KhanA. Jabeen
Absract:Objective: The objective of the study was to establish the efficacy and tolerability of oral Unani formulations with inhalation of Kalonji and to provide safe, effective, and economical treatment for Iltehab Tajaweefe Anaf Muzmin (chronic rhinosinusitis [CRS]). Methods: A randomized single-blind, comparative study of 40 patients of CRS. The patients were randomly allocated to two groups each consisting of 20 patients. In Group A, oral Unani formulation of Katan (Linum usitatissimum), Filfil Siyah (Piper nigrum), and honey was given 6 g BD with steam inhalation of Kalonji (Nigella sativa) and Tab Alaspan 1 BD with Karvol Plus inhalation was given in Group B. Results: Statistical analysis of the data was done using paired t test by comparing the visual analog scale score of all major and minor symptoms before and after treatment. The result is statistically highly significant in Group A (p<0.0001) and it is significant in Group B. (p<0.01). Conclusion: It may be concluded that the oral Unani formulation with inhalation of Kalonji has statistically highly significant effect on major and minor symptoms of CRS. A multicentric trial of the test drug on larger sample size for a longer duration is required to establish the efficacy of the formulation on CRS.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2016.1200555
Title:Efficacy of inhaled medications in asthma and COPD related to disease severity
Authors:B. HajianJ. De BackerW. VosJ. AertsJ. CluckersW. De Backer
Absract:Introduction: The administration of medication by inhalation has become the most important route in treating airway diseases. The efficacy of this route depends on several factors like correct inhalation techniques, compliance and the size of the particles. The flow properties and internal flow distribution contribute to the deposition pattern. Areas covered: What has been less well studied is the effect of the internal flow distribution. We know from recent studies that using systemic anti-inflammatory compounds that open up the distal airways redistributes flow internally and enhances the deposition of inhaled particles to the active site of bronchoconstriction or airway inflammation. We discuss this in more detail in this paper, and also make reference to the use of functional respiratory imaging (FRI) that allows for the description of this flow pattern starting from chest CT followed by post processing with segmentation software and the application of fluid dynamics. Expert opinion: The method that was previously validated does show the importance of redistribution of flow in the final clinical results that could be obtained with inhaled medication, especially in more severe obstructive airway diseases. Based on these insights and novel diagnostic tools, patients in end stage respiratory failure would benefit from a personalized approach with inhaled medication.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.06.038
Title:Edetate calcium disodium nanoparticle dry powder inhalation: A novel approach against heavy metal decorporation
Authors:N. KumarS. SoniA. JaiminiF.J. AhmadA. BhatnagarG. Mittal
Absract:Objective was to develop and characterize nano-edetate calcium disodium (Ca-Na@sub_begin2@sub_endEDTA) dry powder inhaler (DPI), and assess its in vitro and in vivo deposition using pharmacoscintigraphy techniques. Factors influencing nanoparticle formation including concentration of drug, polymer solution and stirring rate were determined. Optimized formulation was characterized with the help of SEM, TEM and Malvern Zetasizer studies. Any change in physical characteristics after nanosizing was determined by FT-IR, XRD and DSC studies. Anderson cascade impaction showed that nano Ca-Na@sub_begin2@sub_endEDTA exhibited significantly higher respirable fraction of 67.35 ± 2.27% and 66.40 ± 2.87% by scintigraphic and spectroscopic analysis respectively, as compared to 10.08 ± 1.17% and 9.36 ± 1.02% respectively for micronized form. Ventilation lung scintigraphy done in 12 volunteers showed significant increase in drug delivery till alveolar region with nano Ca-Na @sub_begin2@sub_endEDTA. The developed formulation may have a role in neutralizing heavy metal toxicity through inhalation route, including radio-metal contamination. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/eotp.13.9.1333.22942
Title:Inhalation drug delivery devices and emerging technologies
Authors:H.-K. Chan
Absract:Driven by the pharmaceutical industry to realise the full potential of the lungs for local and systemic treatment of diseases, pulmonary drug delivery by inhalation aerosols has been undergoing rapid development in the past decade. This has led to novel invention of aerosol delivery devices including the propellant-driven metered-dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and atomisers. Closely coupled to these inhaler devices are the formulations and new technologies that are required to produce particles of defined characteristics for improved delivery. This review highlights some of the recent advances in this expanding field.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119711
Title:Amorphous solid dispersion dry powder for pulmonary drug delivery: Advantages and challenges
Authors:K. AboulFotouhY. ZhangM. ManiruzzamanR.O. WilliamsZ. Cui
Absract:Amorphous solid dispersion (ASD) is commonly used in pharmaceutical industry. It has been mainly employed to enhance the oral bioavailability of poorly water-soluble drugs that belong to class II and IV of the biopharmaceutical classification system but has showed promise in other areas of pharmaceutical research. In this review, the potential and limitations of ASD dry powder for inhalation are discussed. ASD powder for inhalation (ASD-IP) is commonly prepared by spray drying technique. The physicochemical characteristics of ASD-IP could be tailored to achieve effective lung deposition. ASD-IP could also attain rapid dissolution behavior to achieve therapeutically effective concentration either locally or systemically before particle clearance in the lung. The key challenges of using ASD powder for inhalation include the possible chemical and/or physical instability of the amorphous phase during manufacturing and in vivo, and the moisture and temperature sensitivity of ASD-IP that affects its storage stability.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.04.005
Title:Dry powders for oral inhalation free of lactose carrier particles
Authors:A.M. HealyM.I. AmaroK.J. PaluchL. Tajber
Absract:Dry powder inhaler (DPI) products have traditionally comprised a simple formulation of micronised drug mixed with a carrier excipient, typically lactose monohydrate. The presence of the carrier is aimed at overcoming issues of poor flowability and dispersibility, associated with the cohesive nature of small, micronised active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particles. Both the powder blend and the DPI device must be carefully designed so as to ensure detachment of the micronised drug from the carrier excipient on inhalation.Over the last two decades there has been a significant body of research undertaken on the design of carrier-free formulations for DPI products. Many of these formulations are based on sophisticated particle engineering techniques; a common aim in formulation design of carrier-free products being to reduce the intrinsic cohesion of the particles, while maximising dispersion and delivery from the inhaler. In tandem with the development of alternative formulations has been the development of devices designed to ensure the efficient delivery and dispersion of carrier-free powder on inhalation. In this review we examine approaches to both the powder formulation and inhaler design for carrier-free DPI products.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.10.047
Title:Inhalation performance of pollen-shape carrier in dry powder formulation with different drug mixing ratios: Comparison with lactose carrier
Authors:M.S. HassanR. Lau
Absract:In this study, the drug delivery performance of pollen-shape hydroxyapatite (HA) carriers is assessed and compared with conventional lactose (LA) carriers. Budesonide (Bd) is used as the model drug. Three drug mixing ratios of 2:1, 10:1 and 45:1 (carrier:drug, w/w) are used. The attachment of the drug with the carrier is characterized by sieving test. It is found that the drug content in the blends with HA particles is higher than the blends with LA. In vitro inhalation experiments are also conducted in an Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) equipped with a Rotahaler@sup_begin®@sup_end at gas flow rates of 30 and 60 L/min. The HA blends show high emitted dose (ED) of 82-90% at 30 L/min while the LA blends are observed to have ED of 69-82% at the same conditions. The high emission of the HA blends also allows high fine particle fraction (FPF) of 10-18% while the FPF of the LA blends are 3-15%. At a gas flow rate of 60 L/min, all the HA and LA blends show compatible ED (83-95% for HA blends and 82-84% for LA blends) and FPF (19-41% for HA blends and 21-34% for LA blends). © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:47242353
Title:Effects of strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor on the hypnotic and analgesic effects of inhalation anesthetics
Authors:Y. ChenH.-P. LiT.-J. DaiY.-M. Zeng
Absract:Aim: To investigate the relationship between strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor (GlyR) and the hypnotic and analgesic effects of aether, enflurane, isoflurane, sevoflurane. Methods: After having established the mice model of hypnosis and analgesia by intraperitoneally injecting (ip) appropriate doses of aether, enflurane, isoflurane or sevoflurane, we intracerebroventricularly (icv) or intrathecally (it) injected different doses of strychnine and observed effects on the sleeping time (ST) by using awaken test and the pain index in hot-plate test (HPPI) by using hot-plate test. Results: In awaken test, strychnine 1, 2, 4 μg (icv) have no distinctive effect on the ST of mice treated with four inhalation anesthetics mentioned above (P > 0.05); in hot-plate test, strychnine at 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 μg (it) can significantly and dose dependently decrease the HPPI of the mice treated with aether, enflurane and sevoflurane (P < 0.05, P < 0.01); strychnine at 0.1 μg (it) did not affect the HPPI of mice treated with isoflurane (P > 0.05), but at 0.2, 0.4 μg (it) could significantly decrease the HPPI of mice treated with isoflurane (P < 0.05, P < 0.01). Conclusion: GlyR may be important targets for the analgesic effects of aether, enflurane, isoflurane and sevoflurane, but have no relationship with their hypnotic effects.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2003.10.024
Title:Improvement of stability and absorbability of dry insulin powder for inhalation by powder-combination technique
Authors:H. TodoH. OkamotoK. IidaK. Danjo
Absract:The effect of pulmonary absorption enhancers on the stability of active ingredients is an important factor for successful inhalation therapy as well as the effect on pharmacological activity and safety. We examined the effect of pulmonary absorption enhancers on the stability of insulin in dry powders prepared by a spray-drying technique. Although the hypoglycemic effect was greatly improved when a dry insulin powder containing citric acid (MIC SD) was administered, insulin in the MIC SD was unstable compared with the other powders examined. Bacitracin and Span 85, which are potent pulmonary absorption enhancers of insulin formulated in solutions, showed no deteriorative effect on the stability of dry insulin powder. However, they did not improve the hypoglycemic effect of insulin in dry powders. We modified the insulin dosage form with citric acid to improve the insulin stability at room temperature without loss of hypoglycemic activity. MIC Mix was formulated as a combination of insulin powder (MI′) and citric acid powder (MC). MIC Mix showed hypoglycemic activity comparable to MIC SD while the insulin stability was much better than that of MIC SD at a 60°C/dry condition. However, moisture lowered the insulin stability and changed the particle morphology of MIC Mix with time at a 60°C/75% relative humidity condition, suggesting that a package preventing moisture absorption was necessary for the MIC Mix powder. © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jep.2013.07.028
Title:Fumigation in Ayurveda: Potential strategy for drug discovery and drug delivery
Authors:C.N. VishnuprasadN.S. PradeepY.W. ChoG.G. GangadharanS.S. Han
Absract:Ethnopharmacological relevance Ayurveda has its unique perceptions and resultant methodologies for defining and treating human diseases. Fumigation therapy is one of the several treatment methods described in Ayurveda whereby fumes produced from defined drug formulations are inhaled by patients. This therapeutic procedure offers promising research opportunities from phytochemical and ethnopharmacological viewpoints, however, it remains under-noticed. Considering these facts, this review is primarily aimed at introducing said Ayurvedic fumigation therapy and discussing its scientific gaps and future challenges. Methodology A search of multiple bibliographical databases and traditional Ayurvedic text books was conducted and the articles analyzed under various key themes, e.g., Ayurvedic fumigation, fumigation therapy, medicinal fumigation, inhalation of drugs and aerosol therapy. Result Ayurveda recommends fumigation as a method of sterilization and therapeutic procedure for various human diseases including microbial infections and psychological disorders. However, it has not gained much attention as a prospective field with multiple research opportunities. Conclusion It is necessary to have a more detailed and systematic investigation of the phytochemical and pharmacodynamic properties of Ayurvedic fumigation therapy in order to facilitate the identification of novel bioactive compounds and more effective drug administration methods. © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2009.10.010
Title:Simple and scalable method for peptide inhalable powder production
Authors:A. SchoubbenP. BlasiS. GiovagnoliM. RicciC. Rossi
Absract:The aim of this work was to produce capreomycin dry powder and capreomycin loaded PLGA microparticles intended for tuberculosis inhalation therapy, using simple and scalable methods. Capreomycin physico-chemical characteristics have been modified by hydrophobic ion pairing with oleate. The powder suspension was processed by high pressure homogenization and spray-dried. Spray-drying was also used to prepare capreomycin oleate (CO) loaded PLGA microparticles. CO powder was suspended in the organic phase containing PLGA and the suspension was spray-dried. Particle dimensions were determined using photon correlation spectroscopy and Accusizer C770. Morphology was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and capreomycin content by spectrophotometry. Capreomycin properties were modified to increase polymeric microparticle content and obtain respirable CO powder. High pressure homogenization allowed to reduce CO particle dimensions obtaining a population in the micrometric (6.18 μm) and one in the nanometric (∼317 nm) range. SEM pictures showed not perfectly spherical particles with a wrinkled surface, generally suitable for inhalation. PLGA particles were characterized by a high encapsulation efficiency (about 90%) and dimensions (∼6.69 μm) suitable for inhalation. Concluding, two different formulations were successfully developed for capreomycin pulmonary delivery. The hydrophobic ion pair strategy led to a noticeable drug content increase. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/jam.2007.0586
Title:A 6-month inhalation study to characterize the toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of Human Insulin Inhalation Powder (HIIP) in beagle dogs
Authors:A. VickR. WolffA. KoesterR. ReamsD.R. DeaverS. Heidel
Absract:The purpose of this study was to characterize the toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of human insulin inhalation powder (HIIP) in beagle dogs when administered daily as an aerosolized dry powder formulation for 26 weeks via head-only inhalation. Conscious beagle dogs were exposed for 15 mins/day to an air control, placebo, maximal placebo (approximately three-fold the placebo dose), or one of three doses of HIIP (mean inhaled doses of 80, 240, or 701 μg/kg/day for the HIIP-low, HIIP-mid, and HIIP-high dose, respectively), The mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMAD) were between 2 and 3 μm and geometric standard deviation (GSD) values were approximately 2 across the groups, which is the ideal size range for favorable lung deposition. All groups were comprised of four dogs/sex, with the air control, HIIP-high, and maximal placebo groups having an additional two dogs/sex as recovery subgroups. Concentrations of serum insulin and glucose were determined from blood samples obtained following the first and last exposure for evaluation of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of HIIP. Dose-related exposure (C @sub_beginmax@sub_end, AUC) to inhaled insulin was observed with rapid absorption and no apparent gender differences or accumulation after repeated inhalation exposures for 26 weeks. The expected pharmacological effect of insulin was observed with dose-related decreases in serum glucose levels following HIIP administration. There were no toxic effects observed including no HIIP or placebo treatment-related effects on mean body weights, absolute body weight changes, clinical observations, food consumption, respiratory function parameters, ophthalmic examinations, electrocardiograms, heart rates, clinical pathology, or urinalysis. Similarly, there were no HIIP or placebo treatment-related effects on pulmonary assessments that included respiratory function parameters, bronchial alveolar lavage assessments, organ weights, or macroscopic and microscopic evaluations, including lung cell proliferation indices. HIIP was considered to have either low or no immunogenic potential in dogs. The no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) and maximum tolerated dose were the average inhaled dose of 701 μg insulin/kg/day. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1248/yakushi.17-00155
Title:Development of inhalable dry powder formulations loaded with nanoparticles maintaining their original physical properties and functions
Authors:T. Okuda
Absract:Functional nanoparticles, such as liposomes and polymeric micelles, are attractive drug delivery systems for solubilization, stabilization, sustained release, prolonged tissue retention, and tissue targeting of various encapsulated drugs. For their clinical application in therapy for pulmonary diseases, the development of dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations is considered practical due to such advantages as: (1) it is noninvasive and can be directly delivered into the lungs; (2) there are few biocomponents in the lungs that interact with nanoparticles; and (3) it shows high storage stability in the solid state against aggregation or precipitation of nanoparticles in water. However, in order to produce effective nanoparticle-loaded dry powders for inhalation, it is essential to pursue an innovative and comprehensive formulation strategy in relation to composition and powderization which can achieve (1) the particle design of dry powders with physical properties suitable for pulmonary delivery through inhalation, and (2) the effective reconstitution of nanoparticles that will maintain their original physical properties and functions after dissolution of the powders. Spray-freeze drying (SFD) is a relatively new powderization technique combining atomization and lyophilization, which can easily produce highly porous dry powders from an aqueous sample solution. Previously, we advanced the optimization of components and process conditions for the production of SFD powders suitable to DPI application. This review describes our recent results in the development of novel DPI formulations effectively loaded with various nanoparticles (electrostatic nanocomplexes for gene therapy, liposomes, and self-assembled lipid nanoparticles), based on SFD.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.04.069
Title:Carrier-free combination for dry powder inhalation of antibiotics in the treatment of lung infections in cystic fibrosis
Authors:G. PilcerV. De BuegerK. TrainaH. TraoreT. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:The aim of the study was to develop an efficient combination antibiotic formulation containing tobramycin and clarithromycin as a dry powder for inhalation. A carrier-free formulation of the two drugs was produced by spray-drying and characterised for its aerodynamic behaviour by impaction tests with an NGI and release profiles. The particle size distribution, morphological evaluation and crystallinity state were determined by laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy and powder X-ray diffraction, respectively. Drug deposition profiles were similar for the two antibiotics, which has a synergistic effect, allowing them to reach the target simultaneously at the expected dose. The release profiles show that tobramycin and clarithromycin should probably dissolve without any difficulties in vivo in the lung as 95% of tobramycin and 57% of clarithromycin mass dissolved in 10 min for the spray-dried formulation. The FPF increased from 35% and 31% for the physical blend for tobramycin and clarithromycin, respectively, to 65% and 63% for the spray-dried formulation. The spray-dried formulation shows particularly high deposition results, even at sub-optimal inspiratory flow rates, and therefore, represents an attractive alternative in the local treatment of lung infection such as in cystic fibrosis. © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.03.020
Title:Characterization of a new inhalable thymopentin formulation
Authors:L. WangY. ZhangX. Tang
Absract:The present work describes a new dry powder containing thymopentin (TP5) suitable for inhalation. A total of 21 dry powders were produced by co-spray drying TP5 with lactose or mannitol as a bulking agent, leucine as a dispersibility enhancer and poloxamer 188 as a drug stabilizer. Analyses by scanning electron microscopy, laser diffractometry, thermogravimetry, Twin Stage Impactor and HPLC were performed to characterize the manufactured powders. The results revealed that formulation compositions greatly influenced the physical characteristics of the powders, such as the angle of repose, tapped density, particle size and aerodynamic diameter which, in turn, affected their aerodynamic behavior. A higher loading of leucine in the formulations (>63% by dry weight) improved the aerosolization properties of the powders by producing aerodynamically lighter particles. The optimum formulation, which had a tapped density of 0.31 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end, an aerodynamic diameter of 1.9 μm and an in vitro deposition of 45%, was obtained by combining TP5/mannitol/leucine in the ratio of 10/18/72. In addition, it was interesting to find that poloxamer 188 had a significant impact on improving the powder flowability rather than stabilizing TP5. In conclusion, the chosen composition promises an enhanced aerosol performance for the new TP5 inhalation formulation, suitable for deep lung deposition. © 2009.

doi:10.1016/j.jpba.2021.114445
Title:Using thermal forced degradation approach for impurity profiling of budesonide solution-formulated metered dose inhalation with implementation of LC-QTOFMS and HPLC-UV
Authors:M. PengD. SongX. LingW. JiangY. ZhangY. YangJ. Le
Absract:The impurity profile of budesonide solution-formulated metered dose inhalation using thermal forced degradation approach was studied intensively in this article. The structural identification of 10 budesonide related impurities was conducted by LC-QTOFMS, and the impurity level in the formulations of different excipients and packing materials were compared using HPLC-UV. Based on our results, the impurities were classified into three groups: (Ⅰ) process impurities, including budesonide impurity A, C and F; (Ⅱ) degradation products, including budesonide impurity E, G, D, 17-carboxylate, and 17-ketone; (Ⅲ) not only process impurities but also degradation products, including budesonide impurity I and L. Budesonide impurity D, 17-carboxylate, 17-ketone and impurity L were found to be the major degradation products of budesonide, and the reaction pathways for the generation of these impurities were speculated. The generation of budesonide impurity D, 17-carboxylate and L was found to be an aerobic oxidation process induced by Al@sub_begin2@sub_endO@sub_begin3@sub_end on the inner surface of aluminum canisters. Furthermore, an in-depth discussion on the proposed impact of the excipients on budesonide degradation, especially on the Al@sub_begin2@sub_endO@sub_begin3@sub_end-induced oxidation process, was provided in this article.

doi:10.2337/db20-1023-P
Title:Dose titration and clinical effects of inhaled technosphere insulin compared with mealtime subcutaneous (SC) analog insulin therapy in type 1 diabetes (T1D)
Authors:D.M. KendallJ. ManoukianJ.A. KruegerM. JonesR. AbanielP.M. MoreyM.L. GrantB.J. Hoogwerf
Absract:Insulin dosing has been a clinical challenge since the introduction of “islet extract” in the 1920's. Route of administration, insulin preparation and peptide modifications alter clinical effects. With newer insulins, patients and clinicians must clearly understand effective dosing. Technosphere Insulin (TI) is a dry-powder formulation of recombinant human insulin adsorbed onto Technosphere microparticles administered by pulmonary inhalation. TI cartridges are labeled as insulin “units” (4, 8, 12 unit cartridges). With proper dose titration, TI achieves comparable glucose control, improves mealtime glucose, and lowers hypoglycemia risk vs. insulin analogs in T1D. Methods: These analyses compare doses of TI achieved after active titration in 4 randomized trials in individuals with T1D. The ratio of TI inhalation units (based on labeled cartridge content) to SC prandial analog in the comparator group was calculated for each trial at study endpoint. Results: Conclusion: The current analyses across 4 unique studies support the titration of individual patients to TI doses that are approximately 1.3 - 2.5x those of their comparable SC analog insulin doses. These data show that greater “unit doses” of TI should be used to achieve glycemic control in T1D and thus, insulins should be dosed based on glycemic responses rather than insulin units. (Figure Presented).

doi:10.1007/s00210-020-01828-y
Title:A structure-based grouping approach for evaluating the toxicity of e-cigarette flavor ingredients: A 5-week inhalation study in A/J mice
Authors:K. LuettichE.T. WongD. SciuscioK. AshutoshP. LeroyK. LeeP. VanscheeuwijckM. PeitschJ. Hoeng
Absract:Question: Most flavors are generally recognized as safe for use in foods. However, limited toxicological information is available for evaluating the potential hazard of flavors delivered via inhalation. Because toxicity testing of each individual compound or formulation is not feasible, we sought to evaluate flavors by using a structure-based grouping approach in a short-term inhalation study. Methods: Structurally related flavor compounds were clustered into groups, and 38 representatives were selected one from each structural group (Flavor Group Representative, FGR)on the basis of known and in silico predicted toxicological information. The selected FGRs were combined to create a full “toolbox” flavor mixture. This mixture was then used in a dose-range-finding study with emphasis on subacute toxicity, respiratory tract irritation, and inflammation to select appropriate concentrations of flavor compounds from the “toolbox” to be used in a future chronic inhalation study. A/J mice were whole-body exposed to the following for 6 hours per day, 5 days per week, for 5 weeks: fresh air (sham); aerosol from propylene glycol (PG) and vegetable glycerol (VG) with nicotine (N); aerosol from PG, VG, and N with flavors (F) at low, medium, and high concentrations; or mainstream smoke (MS) from the 3R4F reference cigarette. Results: The aerosols were well tolerated by the mice, without signs of severe acute toxicity post-exposure. Exposure to the flavored aerosols, even at the highest flavor concentration, did not cause lung inflammation, as evidenced by the lack of immune cell infiltrates in bronchioalveolar lavage fluid and histopathological findings. In contrast, exposure to MS resulted in lung inflammation and moderate to severe adaptive changes in nasal and laryngeal epithelia. Most of the latter effects were absent in mice exposed to flavored e-vapor aerosols, and, when present, they were significantly less severe than in MS-exposed mice. Conclusion: The tested flavor concentrations did not cause severe subacute toxicity or respiratory tract irritation/inflammation and can be considered suitable for use in future chronic inhalation studies for assessing chronic toxicity and lung tumorigenesis in A/J mice.

doi:10.1055/s-2002-19989
Title:Technosphere™/insulin - Proof of concept study with a new insulin formulation for pulmonary delivery
Authors:S. SteinerA. PfütznerB.R. WilsonO. HarzerL. HeinemannK. Rave
Absract:Technosphere™/Insulin (TI) is a formulation of regular human insulin and Technosphere™, a new drug delivery system for pulmonary administration. The formulation is designed for efficient transport of insulin across the intact respiratory epithelium into the systemic circulation. We have investigated the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of Technosphere™/Insulin in five healthy, non-smoking volunteers. In an open, randomized, three-way crossover study, subjects received 5 IU regular human insulin (HI) intravenously, 10 IU HI subcutaneously; and 100 IU TI via inhalation using a small commercially available asthma inhaler. The time action profiles of all three insulin formulations were assessed by the euglycemic glucose clamp technique on three different study days. Glucose infusion rates were monitored from 2 h before until 6 h after insulin administration. Other study measures were serum insulin, serum C-peptide concentrations, and safety parameters. The inhalation of TI was well tolerated. The time to peak action was significantly shorter with both i.v. injection and inhalation, as compared to s.c. (14±6 min and 39±36 min vs. 163±25 min; p<0.0002 and p<0.007 (mean±SD)). The metabolic effect during the first 3 h after insulin administration was higher with inhaled TI than with HI s.c. (AUC@sub_begin0-180@sub_end for glucose infusion rate: 1.94±0.77 mg/kg*min vs. 1.15±0.50 mg/kg*min; p<0.04). Relative and absolute bioavailability for the first 3 h were 26± 12% and 15±5% respectively (6h: 16±8 and 16±6%). We conclude that inhalation of TI leads to a rapid onset of metabolic action resembling the effect observed with i.v. administration of regular HI. Despite the use of a common asthma inhaler, bioavailability over the three hour prandial period was substantially greater than with other reported pulmonary systems. Therefore, inhalation of Technosphere™/Insulin may become a suitable and attractive alternative for prandial insulin delivery, especially for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666150820105916
Title:Dry powder formulation of plasmid DNA and siRNA for inhalation
Authors:M.Y.T. ChowJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Nucleic acid therapeutics has huge potential for the treatment of a wide range of diseases including respiratory diseases. Plasmid DNA (pDNA) and small interfering RNA (siRNA) are the two most widely investigated nucleic acids for therapeutic development. However, efficient and safe delivery of nucleic acids is still a major hurdle in translating nucleic acid therapy into clinical practice. For the treatment of respiratory diseases, administration via inhalation is the most direct and effective way to deliver therapeutic nucleic acids to the lungs. Although liquid aerosol formulation is investigated in most of the studies, it is not desirable in terms of maintaining the stability of nucleic acid especially during long-term storage. This problem could be circumvented by formulating the therapeutic nucleic acids into dry powder for inhalation, and should be considered as the future direction of developing inhalable nucleic acids. In this review, the three major particle engineering methods investigated for the preparation of inhalable pDNA and siRNA formulations, including spray drying (SD), spray freeze drying (SFD) and supercritical fluid (SFC) drying, are discussed and compared. Moreover, common assessment methods and the challenges of evaluating the biological activities of inhalable nucleic acid powders are also reviewed.

doi:10.1016/j.etap.2013.05.016
Title:In vivo lung deposition and sub-acute inhalation toxicity studies of nano-sized alendronate sodium as an antidote for inhaled toxic substances in Sprague Dawley rats
Authors:S. SultanaR. AliS. TalegaonkarF.J. AhmadG. MittalA. Bhatnagar
Absract:Introduction: Alendronate sodium is a bisphosphonate agent used for the treatment of osteoporosis and other bone diseases. It has a strong chelating property to bind or, to some extent, counteract the effects of substances, such as magnesium, calcium citrate, ferrous fumarate, carbonyl iron, as well as the zinc gluconate, sulfate and acetate salts. The objective of the present study was to evaluate lung deposition and sub-acute inhalation toxicity of the alendronate sodium respiratory formulation. Methods: Particle dimension of aerosols of alendronate was measured using a particle size analyzer. Alendronate was radiolabeled using Technetium-99m for in vitro and in vivo biodistribution studies. Alendronate at doses, 0.5%, 1.0%, and 1.5% in ethanol-saline respiratory formulation was inhaled twice a day up to 5 weeks for inhalation toxicity investigations. Hematological, biochemical and lung toxicity biomarkers in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid were determined at the end of the experiment. Histopathological analysis of lung tissues was carried out to observe any microscopic changes. Results: Particle size analysis revealed the size within 300-500. nm. Anderson cascade impactor results showed that the particles exhibited higher respirable fraction (55.52%) with MMAD of 4.66μm. Hematology, serum biochemistry and lung toxicity biomarkers in BAL fluid performed in the sub-acute toxicity studies indicated no adverse effects of alendronate sodium inhalation except for a significant increase in cholesterol levels and marginal increase in BAL fluid protein. At autopsy, no histopathological changes in major organs were observed. Conclusions: The lung deposition and safety evaluation data observed from these studies suggested that aerosolized nanosized alendronate sodium by the inhalation route could be a new and promising route of administration as an antidote to radioactive substances through an increase in the bioavailability of the drug as well as a decrease in side effects on systemic delivery. © 2013.

doi:10.1038/nnano.2007.234
Title:Nanomedicine: Magnetic nanoparticles hit the target
Authors:A. Amirfazli
Absract:The indiscriminate inhalation of drugs during cancer treatment can adversely affect healthy tissues that surround the tumour. New studies in mice show that tiny aerosol droplets can be guided to the right spot in the lung with an external magnet. © 2007 Nature Publishing Group.

doi:10.1111/j.1365-2125.2006.02775.x
Title:Tolerability and pharmacokinetics of inhaled bimosiamose disodium in healthy males
Authors:M. MeyerK.-M. BeehJ. BeierD. BeyerE. AydtR. ZahltenB. JilmaG. Wolff
Absract:Aims: The aim of these first-in-human studies was to investigate the tolerability and the pharmacokinetics of bimosiamose disodium (TBC1269Z) administered by inhalation. Methods: Two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase I trials were performed in healthy males. In a single-dose escalating study 48 subjects received doses of 2-140 mg bimosiamose disodium by inhalation and in a multiple-dose study 32 subjects received 8-70 mg bimosiamose disodium twice daily. In both studies 4 ml of the drug solution was administered via nebulizer over 15 min. Adverse events, vital signs, ECG, clinical laboratory parameters and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end) data were recorded and nasopharyngeal examinations were performed to address the safety and tolerability. Blood was collected for the determination of plasma concentrations of bimosiamose. Results: All subjects completed the study. No deaths or severe adverse events occurred. Eleven mild adverse events occurred in the dose-escalation study and 34 in the multiple-dose study after inhalation of bimosiamose disodium. Adverse events were more frequent at the highest dose (140 mg) of the dose-escalation study. For placebo treatment one moderate adverse event was observed in the dose-escalation study after placebo treatment, eight mild and three moderate adverse events occurred in the multiple-dose study. Bimosiamose was detected in plasma (maximum concentration 64 ng ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end) only at doses ≥50 mg given twice daily and 105 mg once daily. For the highest dose a median value of 5746 h ng ml @sup_begin-1@sup_end was determined for the AUC over the entire period of treatment of the multiple-dose study. Conclusion: The results suggest that single and multiple inhalation of bimosiamose disodium up to 70 mg is well tolerated in healthy males. Systemic bioavailability after inhalation is low. © 2006 Revotar Biopharmaceuticals AG.

pui:40804069
Title:A closer look at powder inhalators
Authors:P.C. SchmidtK. Weyhing
Absract:Aims: The aim of these first-in-human studies was to investigate the tolerability and the pharmacokinetics of bimosiamose disodium (TBC1269Z) administered by inhalation. Methods: Two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase I trials were performed in healthy males. In a single-dose escalating study 48 subjects received doses of 2-140 mg bimosiamose disodium by inhalation and in a multiple-dose study 32 subjects received 8-70 mg bimosiamose disodium twice daily. In both studies 4 ml of the drug solution was administered via nebulizer over 15 min. Adverse events, vital signs, ECG, clinical laboratory parameters and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end) data were recorded and nasopharyngeal examinations were performed to address the safety and tolerability. Blood was collected for the determination of plasma concentrations of bimosiamose. Results: All subjects completed the study. No deaths or severe adverse events occurred. Eleven mild adverse events occurred in the dose-escalation study and 34 in the multiple-dose study after inhalation of bimosiamose disodium. Adverse events were more frequent at the highest dose (140 mg) of the dose-escalation study. For placebo treatment one moderate adverse event was observed in the dose-escalation study after placebo treatment, eight mild and three moderate adverse events occurred in the multiple-dose study. Bimosiamose was detected in plasma (maximum concentration 64 ng ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end) only at doses ≥50 mg given twice daily and 105 mg once daily. For the highest dose a median value of 5746 h ng ml @sup_begin-1@sup_end was determined for the AUC over the entire period of treatment of the multiple-dose study. Conclusion: The results suggest that single and multiple inhalation of bimosiamose disodium up to 70 mg is well tolerated in healthy males. Systemic bioavailability after inhalation is low. © 2006 Revotar Biopharmaceuticals AG.

doi:10.1080/03639040802154913
Title:Influence of formulation and preparation process on ambroxol hydrochloride dry powder inhalation characteristics and aerosolization properties
Authors:Y. RenC. YuK. MengX. Tang
Absract:The objective of this study is to evaluate the influence of formulation and preparation process on ambroxol hydrochloride (AH) dry powder inhalation (DPI) characteristics and aerosolization properties. Spray-dried samples of AH, AH/leucine, and AH/leucine/mannitol were prepared from their corresponding water solutions under the same conditions to study the influence of the composition, and the AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) formulation was used for investigation of the effect of the preparation process. Following spray-drying, the resulting powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy, laser diffraction, tapped density, and angle of repose measurements, and the aerosolization performance was determined using a twin-stage liquid impinger. AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) obtained by cospray-drying improved the AH aerosolization properties. The AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) preparation exhibited the following properties: 62.34% yield, 0.34 g/cm3 tap density, 2.71 μm dae, 33.45°angle of repose, and 30.93% respirable fraction. The influence of the preparation process on DPI characteristics and aerosolization properties was relatively small, but the influence of the composition was relatively large. Optimization of DPI can be achieved by selecting the most appropriate formulation and preparation process. Copyright © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1177/2150129710366268
Title:Albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol
Authors:P.L. EvansJ. Mungcal
Absract:The objective of this study is to evaluate the influence of formulation and preparation process on ambroxol hydrochloride (AH) dry powder inhalation (DPI) characteristics and aerosolization properties. Spray-dried samples of AH, AH/leucine, and AH/leucine/mannitol were prepared from their corresponding water solutions under the same conditions to study the influence of the composition, and the AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) formulation was used for investigation of the effect of the preparation process. Following spray-drying, the resulting powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy, laser diffraction, tapped density, and angle of repose measurements, and the aerosolization performance was determined using a twin-stage liquid impinger. AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) obtained by cospray-drying improved the AH aerosolization properties. The AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) preparation exhibited the following properties: 62.34% yield, 0.34 g/cm3 tap density, 2.71 μm dae, 33.45°angle of repose, and 30.93% respirable fraction. The influence of the preparation process on DPI characteristics and aerosolization properties was relatively small, but the influence of the composition was relatively large. Optimization of DPI can be achieved by selecting the most appropriate formulation and preparation process. Copyright © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1097/00000542-199402000-00037
Title:The 'ozone-friendly' lidocaine spray affects the monitoring of volatile anesthetics [6]
Authors:F. VeyckemansG. MullerM.O. PelsserJ.-L. ScholtesS. Gloss
Absract:The objective of this study is to evaluate the influence of formulation and preparation process on ambroxol hydrochloride (AH) dry powder inhalation (DPI) characteristics and aerosolization properties. Spray-dried samples of AH, AH/leucine, and AH/leucine/mannitol were prepared from their corresponding water solutions under the same conditions to study the influence of the composition, and the AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) formulation was used for investigation of the effect of the preparation process. Following spray-drying, the resulting powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy, laser diffraction, tapped density, and angle of repose measurements, and the aerosolization performance was determined using a twin-stage liquid impinger. AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) obtained by cospray-drying improved the AH aerosolization properties. The AH/leucine/mannitol (2.5/0.5/1 by weight) preparation exhibited the following properties: 62.34% yield, 0.34 g/cm3 tap density, 2.71 μm dae, 33.45°angle of repose, and 30.93% respirable fraction. The influence of the preparation process on DPI characteristics and aerosolization properties was relatively small, but the influence of the composition was relatively large. Optimization of DPI can be achieved by selecting the most appropriate formulation and preparation process. Copyright © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2006.07.009
Title:Clinical perspectives on pulmonary systemic and macromolecular delivery
Authors:G. ScheuchM.J. KohlhaeuflP. BrandR. Siekmeier
Absract:The large epithelial surface area, the high organ vascularization, the thin nature of the alveolar epithelium and the immense capacity for solute exchange are factors that led the lung to serve as an ideal administration route for the application of drugs for treatment of systemic disorders. However, the deposition behaviour of aerosol particles in the respiratory tract depends on a number of physical (e.g. properties of the particle), chemical (e.g. properties of the drug) and physiological (e.g. breathing pattern, pulmonary diseases) factors. If these are not considered, it will not be possible to deposit a reproducible and sufficient amount of drug in a predefined lung region by means of aerosol inhalation. The lack of consideration of such issues led to many problems in inhalation drug therapy for many years mainly because physiological background of aerosol inhalation was not fully understood. However, over the last 20 years, there has been considerable progress in aerosol research and in the understanding of the underlying mechanisms of particle inhalation and pulmonary particle deposition. As a consequence, an increasing number of studies have been performed for the lung administration of drugs using a variety of different inhalation techniques. This review describes the physical and in part some of the physiological requirements that need to be considered for the optimization of pulmonary drug delivery to target certain lung regions. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:363075555
Title:A novel platform for DP inhalation drugs
Authors:J. Sung
Absract:The large epithelial surface area, the high organ vascularization, the thin nature of the alveolar epithelium and the immense capacity for solute exchange are factors that led the lung to serve as an ideal administration route for the application of drugs for treatment of systemic disorders. However, the deposition behaviour of aerosol particles in the respiratory tract depends on a number of physical (e.g. properties of the particle), chemical (e.g. properties of the drug) and physiological (e.g. breathing pattern, pulmonary diseases) factors. If these are not considered, it will not be possible to deposit a reproducible and sufficient amount of drug in a predefined lung region by means of aerosol inhalation. The lack of consideration of such issues led to many problems in inhalation drug therapy for many years mainly because physiological background of aerosol inhalation was not fully understood. However, over the last 20 years, there has been considerable progress in aerosol research and in the understanding of the underlying mechanisms of particle inhalation and pulmonary particle deposition. As a consequence, an increasing number of studies have been performed for the lung administration of drugs using a variety of different inhalation techniques. This review describes the physical and in part some of the physiological requirements that need to be considered for the optimization of pulmonary drug delivery to target certain lung regions. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:27034005
Title:'Usage-modelling' test in aerosol formulations
Authors:L. FedinaR. ZelkoL. FedinaB. BartaZ. Toth
Absract:Authors emphasize the importance of 'usage-modelling' test concerning the uniformity of doses in the case of aerosol formulations containing propellants or supplied with atomising devices. Weight measurement was carried out to identify the uniformity of doses per actuation keeping non-use periods in the case of water-based solutions with different density and suspension containing HFC propellants. If can be concluded that uniformity of doses - applying non-use periods during the testing time - significantly depends on the composition, the density of the formulation and the spraying mechanism of the atomising device.

pui:358439777
Title:Calorimetry as a process analytical tool for micronising pharmaceuticals
Authors:S. Gaisford
Absract:Drug delivery via the pulmonary route is becoming increasingly popular, but brings a unique set of formulation challenges. In particular the small particle sizes (between 2-5 μm) required to facilitate deposition in the lung frequently mean that size-reduction steps (such as milling) are required during processing of constituents (usually the active principal) prior to formulation.

pui:373383504
Title:Scale-up & QBD approaches: For spray-dried inhalation formulations
Authors:E. CostaF. NevesG. AndradeC. Winters
Absract:Drug delivery via the pulmonary route is becoming increasingly popular, but brings a unique set of formulation challenges. In particular the small particle sizes (between 2-5 μm) required to facilitate deposition in the lung frequently mean that size-reduction steps (such as milling) are required during processing of constituents (usually the active principal) prior to formulation.

pui:361724915
Title:Design and size of bioequivalence studies for inhaled drugs
Authors:A. Källén
Absract:Bioequivalence for different formulations of inhaled drugs poses special problems that require clinical studies in patients. I argue that these should contain multiple doses per formulation and derive a simple formula for the calculation of sample size for such studies. © 2011 Drug Information Association, Inc.

doi:10.1097/00000542-200506000-00003
Title:You (still) can't disprove the existence of dragons
Authors:P.E. Scuderi
Absract:Bioequivalence for different formulations of inhaled drugs poses special problems that require clinical studies in patients. I argue that these should contain multiple doses per formulation and derive a simple formula for the calculation of sample size for such studies. © 2011 Drug Information Association, Inc.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.2012.01581.x
Title:Themed issue: Inhalation pharmaceutics - Current technologies and approaches to respiratory drug delivery
Authors:P.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Bioequivalence for different formulations of inhaled drugs poses special problems that require clinical studies in patients. I argue that these should contain multiple doses per formulation and derive a simple formula for the calculation of sample size for such studies. © 2011 Drug Information Association, Inc.

pui:30416059
Title:Diclofenac sodium/misoprostol and tobramycin solution for inhalation
Authors:T. LevienD.E. Baker
Absract:Bioequivalence for different formulations of inhaled drugs poses special problems that require clinical studies in patients. I argue that these should contain multiple doses per formulation and derive a simple formula for the calculation of sample size for such studies. © 2011 Drug Information Association, Inc.

pui:2007976248
Title:Key considerations when repositioning a known drug for inhalation therapy
Authors:G. Venthoye
Absract:Bioequivalence for different formulations of inhaled drugs poses special problems that require clinical studies in patients. I argue that these should contain multiple doses per formulation and derive a simple formula for the calculation of sample size for such studies. © 2011 Drug Information Association, Inc.

doi:10.1007/s41030-020-00120-x
Title:Maintenance Therapy with Nebulizers in Patients with Stable COPD: Need for Reevaluation
Authors:P.D. TerryR. Dhand
Absract:Patients with stable COPD rely heavily on inhaled bronchodilators and corticosteroids to control symptoms, maximize quality of life, and avoid exacerbations and costly hospitalizations. These drugs are typically delivered by hand-held inhalers or nebulizers. The majority of patients are prescribed inhalers due to their perceived convenience, portability, and lower cost, relative to nebulizers. Unfortunately, poor inhaler technique compromises symptom relief in most of these patients. In contrast to one or two puffs through an inhaler, nebulizers deliver a drug over many breaths, through tidal breathing, and hence are more forgiving to poor inhalation technique. To what extent susceptibility to errors in their use may influence the relative effectiveness of these two types of inhalation device has received little attention in COPD research. In 2005, a systematic review of the literature concluded that nebulizers and inhalers are equally effective in patients who are adequately trained to use their inhalation device. This conclusion was based on two small clinical trials that only examined objective measures of lung function. Since then, additional studies have found that maintenance therapy administered by nebulizers could improve patients’ reported feelings of symptom relief, quality of life, and satisfaction with treatment, compared to therapy administered by inhalers. Because it has been 15 years since the publication of the systematic review, in this article we summarize the results of studies that compared the effectiveness of inhalers with that of nebulizers in patients with stable COPD and discuss their implications for clinical practice and need for future research.

doi:10.1208/s12249-014-0127-6
Title:Novel simvastatin inhalation formulation and characterisation
Authors:A.S. TulbahH.X. OngP. ColomboP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Simvastatin (SV), a drug of the statin class currently used orally as an anti-cholesterolemic via the inhibition of the 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl- Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, has been found not only to reduce cholesterol but also to have several other pharmacological actions that might be beneficial in airway inflammatory diseases. Currently, there is no inhalable formulation that could deliver SV to the lungs. In this study, a pressurised metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) solution formulation of SV was manufactured, with ethanol as a co-solvent, and its aerosol performance and physico-chemical properties investigated. A pMDI solution formulation containing SV and 6%w/w ethanol was prepared. This formulation was assessed visually and quantitatively for SV solubility. Furthermore, the aerosol performance (using Andersen Cascade impactor at 28.3 L/min) and active ingredient chemical stability up to 6 months at different storage temperatures, 4 and 25°C, were also evaluated. The physico-chemical properties of the SV solution pMDI were also characterised by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and laser diffraction. The aerosol particles, determined using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), presented a smooth surface morphology and were spherical in shape. The aerosol produced had a fine particle fraction of 30.77±2.44% and a particle size distribution suitable for inhalation drug delivery. Furthermore, the short-term chemical stability showed the formulation to be stable at 4°C for up to 6 months, whilst at 25°C, the formulation was stable up to 3 months. In this study, a respirable and stable SV solution pMDI formulation for inhalation has been presented that could potentially be used clinically as an anti-inflammatory therapy for the treatment of several lung diseases. © 2014 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2016.1201099
Title:Appropriate selection of an aggregation inhibitor of fine particles used for inhalation prepared by emulsion solvent diffusion
Authors:Y. MiyazakiH. SugiharaA. NishiuraK. KadotaY. TozukaH. Takeuchi
Absract:Context: Dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations have been developed to deliver large amounts of drugs to the lungs. Objective: Fine particles of a poorly water-soluble drug, the model drug ONO-2921, were prepared by the emulsion solvent diffusion (ESD) method for use in a DPI. Methods: The effects of additives on the fine particle formation of ONO-2921 were estimated when droplets of an ethanolic drug solution were dispersed into aqueous media containing various additives. Subsequently, the suspensions were freeze-dried to create powdered samples to estimate the inhalation properties using a twin impinger and an Andersen cascade impactor. Results: This simple ESD method produced submicron-sized ONO-2921 particles (approximately 600 nm) in combination with suitable additives. In addition, the freeze-dried powder produced using additives exhibited superior in vitro inhalation properties. Among these methods, the freeze-dried powder produced with 0.50% weight/volume one type of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA-205) displayed the most efficient features in the fine particle fraction (FPF). These results could be explained by the stabilization of the ONO-2921 suspension by PVA-205, indicating that PVA-205 acts as an aggregation inhibitor of fine particles. Conclusions: The ESD method, in combination with appropriate types and amounts of additives, may be useful for preparing a DPI suitable for delivering drugs directly to the lungs without the assistance of carrier particles.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2006.03.009
Title:In vitro evaluation of the effect of cyclodextrin complexation on pulmonary deposition of a peptide, cyclosporin A
Authors:L. MatilainenK. JärvinenT. ToropainenE. NäsiS. AuriolaT. JärvinenP. Jarho
Absract:The effect of hydroxypropyl-α-cyclodextrin (HP-α-CD) complexation on in vitro pulmonary deposition of a cyclic peptide cyclosporin A (CsA) was studied. In addition, the effect of storage (32 days, 40 °C, 75% RH) on CsA/HP-α-CD complexes was studied. The complexation of CsA with CDs was evaluated by a phase-solubility method. Solid CsA/HP-α-CD complexes were prepared by freeze drying. Three inhalation formulations were prepared: CsA/lactose reference formulation (LF) (drug:carrier 1:364, w/w), CsA/HP-α-CD complex formulation (CDF) (drug:CD 1:269, w/w) and CsA/HP-α-CD complex/lactose formulation (CDLF) (complex:carrier 100:114, w/w). The inhalation studies were performed in vitro using Andersen Sampler (Ph. Eur.) and Taifun@sup_begin®@sup_end multi-dose dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Before the storage, the respirable fraction value (RF%) of CsA was 19.8 ± 0.7%, 33.0 ± 7.0% and 34.6 ± 1.1% (mean ± S.D., n = 4 × 20) with LF, CDF and CDLF, respectively. When exposed to moisture (storage in a permeable polystyrene tube), the RF% values of CsA from formulations containing CsA/HP-α-CD complexes were lower than before the storage. However, when stored in the Taifun@sup_begin®@sup_end DPI, the RF% value of CsA from any of the formulations did not decrease. In conclusion, an acceptable RF% value of a peptide CsA from freeze-dried, simply micronized CsA/HP-α-CD complex powder was achieved before and after storage in the DPI. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s40264-015-0346-0
Title:Impediments in the monitoring of drugs of traditional system of medicine
Authors:K.C. Singhal
Absract:Introduction: India has started a National Programme for monitoring of ASU (Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani) drugs in 2008. Together with Allopathic medicine, Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani medicines are practiced in India as non-allopathic systems. These systems comprise a wide range of therapeutic approaches that include diet, herbs, metals, minerals, precious stones and their combinations as well as other non-drug therapies. Ayurveda is the most commonly practiced system of medicine particularly in rural India, where 70 % of the population lives. Methods: To assess the authenticity and importance of temperament in selecting drugs in the Unani system a study was conducted with the association of Department of AYUSH, Government of India at an Apex Medical Hospital. A formulation consisting of 5 medicinal plants, Adhatoda vasica Nees (leaves), Piper longum (fruits), Picrorhiza kurroa (root), Hyossypus officinalis Linn (flower), Linum usitatissimum Linn (seed) was prepared in a tablet form as per Unani pharmacy. All five ingredients used in Unani system of Medicine are of hot and dry temperament. A total of 576 patients of either sex in the age group of 15-45 years suffering from bronchial asthma and having more than 15 % increase in FEV1 following administration of inhalation b2 agonist drugs were included in the study and received a dose of 500-1000 mg TDS. The exclusion criteria were diabetes mellitus, pregnancy, h/o myocardial infarction, severe hepatic or renal damage and patient on steroid therapy. The temperaments of the patients were 'Cold and Moist (Balghami) (n = 236), 'Hot and Moist' (Damvi) (n = 150), 'Hot and Dry' (Safravi) (n = 118), and 'Cold and Dry' (Saudavi) (n = 72). . Spirometry was done on 0, 7, 15, 30 and 90th days. Results: The efficacy of the formulation was found to be different in patients of different temperament, being maximum in the patients with 'Cold and Moist' (Balghami) temperament and least in Saudavi and Safravi temperaments Further, the adverse drug reactions, though mild in nature and mostly confined to gastrointestinal and central nervous systems were fewer in the patients with opposite temperament to the drug. Discussion: From pharmacovigilance point of view, use of herbs as a single drug or in combination with others pose problem for monitoring. This study was done on a small number of patients and only one drug formulation. More such studies are required to validate the traditional concept.

pui:72046132
Title:The role of Rho/Rho kinase in β-adrenoceptor hyposensitivity in chronic asthma mouse and can it be reversed by fasudil?
Authors:W. LuoC.T. LiuQ.H. YangT. Wang
Absract:Rationale Inhalation of a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonist is first-line asthma therapy, used for both acute relief of, and prophylaxis against, bronchoconstriction. However, regular clinical use of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists result in impaired bronchoprotection and increasing occurrences of severe asthma exacerbation, even some associated death. The mechanism of β-adrenoceptor hyposensitivity has not been thoroughly elucidated thus far. The classic theory of the mechanism are β-adrenoceptor desensitization and cross-talking between Gs and Gq signal pathway. But these far from enough, recently Rho/Rho kinase signal pathway, also known as Ca2+ sensitization, has been studied in more details. This signal pathway plays a marked role in almost all pathophysiological and pathological changes in asthma-airway hyperresponsiveness, airway remodeling, inflammatory cell migration, mucus hypersecretion. We aimed to establish a mouse model demonstrated functional formoterol induced β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor hyposensitivity and firstly to testify whether all the three mechanism above, especially Ca2+ sensitization, is involved in β -adrenoceptor hyposensitivity. If the answer is yes, can inhibitor of Rho kinase, 2 Fasudil, attenuate hyposensitivity or resume sensitivity? Methods We combined chronic allergen exposure (7 weeks) with repeated applying formoterol (0.29ug/kg), formoterol + budesonide (10ug/kg), formoterol + fasudil(30mg/kg), formoterol + budesonide + fasudil 2h prior to allergen challenge respectively in BALB/c mouse. The contribution of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptors to terbutaline induced bronchoprotection was measured at 4 different points in time (BUXCO, USA). Associated indicator changes-genes and proteins (M3R, β@sub_begin2@sub_endR, PLC-β1RhoA) (real time PCR/western blot), cytokine (ELISA), RhoA activation (immunohischemistry/Rhotekin-RBD bead pulldown assays)-were also measured. Results Bronchoprotection was measured by changed airway resistance induced by methocholine. Chronic treatment with formoterol-induced loss of bronchoprotection was attenuated by adding budesonide and/or fasudil (figure 1). Expression of RhoA, M3R, PLC-β1 significantly increased while the level of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptors had little changes in formoterol-treated groups compared to the control group. Conclusions This experiment reproduced salient features of human asthma, linked loss of bronchoprection and mimiced the drug formulation as well as the route of delivery in humans. Ca2+ sensitization and cross-talking between Gs with Gq pathway plays a key role in β-adrenoceptor hyposensitivity rather than the falling number of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptors. Inhibiting Ca2+ sensitization can resume bronchoprotection of formoterol, which may provide a novel way to the treatment of asthma.

pui:34052942
Title:Amphotericin B disposition after aerosol inhalation in lung transplant recipients
Authors:F. MarraN. PartoviK.M. WasanE.H. KwongM.H.H. EnsomS.M. CassidyG. FradetR.D. Levy
Absract:BACKGROUND: Bronchopulmonary fungal infections continue to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality in lung transplant recipients, and amphotericin B remains the drug of choice for prophylaxis of most fungal infections. Unfortunately, intravenous amphotericin B has numerous serious adverse effects; thus, nebulized amphotericin B could decrease the incidence of adverse effects seen with the intravenous formulation and provide high local concentrations in the lung tissue. We performed a prospective pilot study to characterize the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), lung tissue, and plasma concentrations of amphotericin B following inhalation administration to lung transplant recipients. METHODS: Amphotericin B 30 mg was administered by nebulizer prior to a routine bronchoscopy. Amphotericin B concentrations in BAL samples from the upper and lower lobes, transbronchial biopsies, and plasma (obtained by drawing a blood sample 30 min after the amphotericin B inhalation) were analyzed by HPLC. RESULTS: Eight patients were enrolled in the study (mean age 50.0 ± 16.1 y; number of years posttransplant 3.0 ± 1.9; type of transplant 5 double-lung, 3 single-lung). The mean amphotericin B concentration in the upper and lower lobe BAL samples were 0.68 ± 0.36 and 0.50 ± 0.31 μg/mL, respectively. Amphotericin B concentrations, detected in only 2 of 5 biopsy samples, were 0.118 and 0.03 μg/g. Amphotericin B was detected in the plasma of only 1 patient (0.19 mg/L). CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study demonstrated that detectable concentrations of amphotericin B can be attained in both the upper and lower BAL samples following aerosol administration. However, the frequency of the dose and duration of treatment still need to be determined in a larger study.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5b00147
Title:Physical Characterization of Tobramycin Inhalation Powder: I. Rational Design of a Stable Engineered-Particle Formulation for Delivery to the Lungs
Authors:D.P. MillerT. TanT.E. TararaJ. NakamuraR.J. MalcolmsonJ.G. Weers
Absract:A spray-dried engineered particle formulation, Tobramycin Inhalation Powder (TIP), was designed through rational selection of formulation composition and process parameters. This PulmoSphere powder comprises small, porous particles with a high drug load. As a drug/device combination, TOBI Podhaler enables delivery of high doses of drug per inhalation, a feature critical for dry powder delivery of anti-infectives for treatment of cystic fibrosis. The objective of this work was to characterize TIP on both the particle and molecular levels using multiple orthogonal physical characterization techniques. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), electron spectroscopy for chemical analysis (ESCA), and Raman measurements show that a TIP particle consists of two phases: amorphous, glassy tobramycin sulfate with a glass transition temperature of about 100°C and a gel-phase phospholipid (DSPC) with a gel-to-liquid-crystal transition temperature of about 80°C. This was by design and constituted a rational formulation approach to provide T@sub_beging@sub_end and T@sub_beginm@sub_end values that are well above the temperatures used for long-term storage of TIP. Raman and ESCA data provide support for a core/shell particle architecture of TIP. Particle surfaces are enriched with a porous, hydrophobic coating that reduces cohesive forces, improving powder fluidization and dispersibility. The excellent aerosol dispersibility of TIP enables highly efficient delivery of fine particles to the respiratory tract. Collectively, particle engineering has enabled development of TOBI Podhaler, an approved inhaled drug product that meaningfully reduces the treatment burden to cystic fibrosis patients worldwide.

doi:10.1248/cpb.c20-00086
Title:Present situation and future progress of inhaled lung cancer therapy: Necessity of inhaled formulations with drug delivery functions
Authors:T. OkudaH. Okamoto
Absract:Inhaled lung cancer therapy is promising because of direct and noninvasive drug delivery to the lungs with low potential for severe systemic toxicity. Thus chemotherapeutic drugs have been administered clinically by nebulization of solution or suspension formulations, which demonstrated their limited pulmonary absorption and relatively mild systemic toxicity. In all these clinical trials, however, there was no obviously superior anticancer efficacy in lung cancer patients even at the maximum doses of drugs limited by pulmonary toxicity. Therefore methods that deliver both higher anticancer efficacy and lower pulmonary toxicity are strongly desired. In addition to the worldwide availability of pressured metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs) to treat local respiratory diseases, recent innovations in medicines and technologies are encouraging next steps toward effective inhaled lung cancer therapy with new therapeutic or drug delivery concepts. These include the discovery of target cells/molecules and drug candidates for novel cancer therapy, the development of high-performance inhalation devices for effective pulmonary drug delivery, and the establishment of manufacturing technologies for functional nanoparticles/microparticles. This review highlights the present situation and future progress of inhaled drugs for lung cancer therapy, including an overview of available inhalation devices, pharmacokinetics, and outcomes in clinical trials so far and some novel formulation strategies based on drug delivery systems to achieve enhanced anticancer efficacy and attenuated pulmonary toxicity.

pui:30173830
Title:Chronic effects of the novel glucocorticosteroid RPR 106541 administered to beagle dogs by inhalation
Authors:G.K. MillerM.G. ValerioM.V. PinoJ.L. LarsonA. ViauN. HamelinR. LabbéC.M. Banks
Absract:The preclinical safety of RPR 106541, a novel 17-thiosteroid, was evaluated in young adult and mature dogs by inhalation exposure for 26 weeks and 52 weeks, respectively. A dry powder formulation of RPR 106541 in lactose was administered to young adult dogs (approximately 6 months of age at initiation) at doses of 0 (air and placebo controls), 10, 100, or 1,000 μg/kg/d for 26 weeks. A solution-based aerosol formulation was administered to mature dogs (approximately 10 months at initiation) from a pressurized metered dose inhaler at 0 (air and placebo controls), 10, 50, and 150 μg/kg/d for 52 weeks. Clinical evidence of glucocorticosteroid-induced immunosuppression was observed by weeks 20-26 following relatively high, dose exposures (100 μg/kg/d and 1,000 μg/kg/d) in young dogs receiving the dry powder formulation for 26 weeks. Classic glucocorticosteroid effects were observed, including adrenocortical atrophy, reduced bone mass with retention of epiphyseal growth plates in long bones, prominence of stromal adipose tissue in bone marrow, and atrophy of lymphoid tissues. Inhalation administration of RPR 106541 to sexually mature clogs facilitated more definitive characterization of endocrine affects of RPR 106541 as compared with administration in younger, sexually immature animals. Significant effects in female reproductive organs included absence of corpora lutea in association with atresia of vesicular follicles within the ovaries, endometrial hyperplasia, and lobular development of mammary tissue. Discordant development of mammary tissue, accumulation of secretory material within hyperplastic endometrial glands, and hypertrophy of uterine lining epithelium in absence of ovulation were consistent with a secondary progestin effect by a potent glucocorticosteroid.

doi:10.1208/s12249-014-0126-7
Title:In vitro and in vivo performance of dry powder inhalation formulations: Comparison of particles prepared by thin film freezing and micronization
Authors:Y.-B. WangA.B. WattsJ.I. PetersS. LiuA. BatraR.O. Williams III
Absract:Recently, inhaled immunosuppressive agents have attracted increasing attention for maintenance therapy following lung transplantation. The rationale for this delivery approach includes a more targeted and localized delivery to the diseased site with reduced systemic exposure, potentially leading to decreased adverse side effects. In this study, the in vitro and in vivo performance of an amorphous formulation prepared by thin film freezing (TFF) and a crystalline micronized formulation produced by milling was compared for tacrolimus (TAC). Despite the relatively large geometric size, the TFF-processed formulation was capable of achieving deep lung delivery due to its low-density, highly porous, and brittle characteristics. When emitted from a Miat® monodose inhaler, TFF-processed TAC formulations exhibited a fine particle fraction (FPF) of 83.3% and a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 2.26 μm. Single-dose 24-h pharmacokinetic studies in rats demonstrated that the TAC formulation prepared by TFF exhibited higher pulmonary bioavailability with a prolonged retention time in the lung, possibly due to decreased clearance (e.g., macrophage phagocytosis), compared to the micronized TAC formulation. Additionally, TFF formulation generated a lower systemic TAC concentration with smaller variability than the micronized formulation following inhalation, potentially leading to reduced side effects related to the drug in systemic circulation. © 2014 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2018.1453
Title:Nebulized inhalation of anti-nerve growth factor microspheres inhibits airway remodeling in an ovalbumin-induced rat asthma model
Authors:W. SheZ. MeiH. ZhaoG. LiY. Lin
Absract:Background: Airway remodeling is considered an important factor in refractory and uncontrollable asthma. Previous studies have confirmed that anti-nerve growth factor (NGF) antibody can ameliorate airway remodeling. However, whether nebulized inhalation of anti-NGF microspheres (NANM) can inhibit airway remodeling is not clear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of NANM on ovalbumin (OVA)-induced airway remodeling, and the mechanisms involved. Methods: Anti-NGF microspheres were produced using a polymer alloy method. OVA was used to establish a rat model of asthma airway remodeling. Rats were treated with inhalation atomized anti-NGF antibody or NANM. Airway inflammation, airway reactivity, and airway remodeling were measured. Lung tissue P-Smad@sub_begin3@sub_end and tumor growth factor (TGF)-β@sub_begin1@sub_end mRNA and protein expression were also measured. Results: The anti-NGF antibody microsphere encapsulation rate was high, and the release time was long. NANM markedly attenuated OVA-induced airway remodeling, such as collagen deposition, average pulmonary resistance, the WAm/Pbm, WAt/Pbm, and Wcol/Pbm ratios (WAt, bronchial wall area; Pbm, perimeter of basement membrane; WAm, smooth muscle wall area; Wcol, airway collagen fiber area). Compared with the anti-NGF antibody group and the OVA group, the expression of TGF-β@sub_begin1@sub_end mRNA, TGF-β@sub_begin1@sub_end protein, and P-Smad@sub_begin3@sub_end in the NANM group were markedly decreased. Conclusions: NANM ameliorated OVA-induced airway remodeling, partly through regulation of the TGF-β@sub_begin1@sub_end/Smad@sub_begin3@sub_end pathway.

doi:10.2165/10484070-000000000-00000
Title:Aztreonam lysine for inhalation solution: In cystic fibrosis
Authors:G.L. Plosker
Absract:Aztreonam is a monobactam antibacterial with bactericidal activity against a wide range of aerobic Gram-negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Aztreonam lysine for inhalation solution (AZLI) does not contain the potentially inflammatory component arginine, which is used as a buffer in the intravenous formulation.Two phase III, randomized, placebo-controlled trials (AIR-CF1 and AIR-CF2) have been completed with AZLI in cystic fibrosis patients with pulmonary P. aeruginosa infection. In AIR-CF1, respiratory symptoms were significantly improved with AZLI compared with placebo, as assessed by the respiratory symptoms domain of the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised, a disease-specific, patient-reported outcome instrument. The mean treatment effect exceeded the minimal clinically important difference.In AIR-CF2, AZLI was compared with placebo following a 28-day course of tobramycin inhalation solution. AZLI was associated with a significant delay in the need for inhaled or intravenous antipseudomonal antibacterials, as determined by the presence of one of four predefined symptoms shown to be predictive of pulmonary exacerbations.An open-label extension of these trials (AIR-CF3) also demonstrated clinical efficacy with repeated courses of AZLI over 18 months and was not associated with sustained reductions in P. aeruginosa susceptibility.AZLI was also associated with improved pulmonary function and reductions in P. aeruginosa density in sputum in clinical trials.The tolerability profile of AZLI was generally similar to that of placebo in randomized controlled trials, with respiratory symptoms being the most frequently reported adverse events. © 2010 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s11095-016-2050-x
Title:The Impact of Inspiratory Flow Rate on Drug Delivery to the Lungs with Dry Powder Inhalers
Authors:J. WeersA. Clark
Absract:Current marketed dry powder inhalers utilize the energy from patient inspiration to fluidize and disperse bulk powder agglomerates into respirable particles. Variations in patient inspiratory flow profiles can lead to marked differences in total lung dose (TLD), and ultimately patient outcomes for an inhaled therapeutic. The present review aims to quantitate the flow rate dependence in TLD observed for a number of drug/device combinations using a new metric termed the Q index. With this data in hand, the review explores key attributes in the design of the formulation and device that impact flow rate dependence. The review also proposes alternative in vitro methods to assess flow rate dependence that more closely align with in vivo observations. Finally, the impact of variations in flow rate on lung function for inhaled bronchodilators is summarized.

pui:4121433
Title:Antibiotics in the treatment of chronic bronchitis
Authors:W.T. Ulmer
Absract:Aerosol inhalation represents a possibility of directly supplying local areas with humidity and medication. This method does not affect blood circulation for transportation of the drug. Another advantage is that smaller amounts of drugs are needed. Disadvantages are the required high standards of technical equipment, intelligence and understanding of the patient. 3 different means of sedimentation are considered, i.e. sedimentation by centrifugal force while inhaling, sedimentation by gravity, and sedimentation by impaction. The smallest particles are subjected to mechanisms of diffusion or to Brown's molecular movement. Different types of aerosol devices like nozzle, ultrasound, propellent gas atomisers, and small devices for dry inhalation are described. Moreover, substances and drug combinations which are applied as aerosols and the different indications for aerosol therapy are discussed.

doi:10.1007/s40265-014-0181-0
Title:Colistimethate sodium dry powder for inhalation: A review of its use in the treatment of chronic pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in patients with cystic fibrosis
Authors:D. ConoleG.M. Keating
Absract:Historically, the polymyxin antibacterial colistin has been administered as intravenous or nebulized colistimethate sodium in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. More recently, colistimethate sodium has been formulated as a dry powder (Colobreathe®) to be administered via a hand-held Turbospin® inhaler. Compared with nebulized colistimethate sodium, the colistimethate sodium dry powder for inhalation (DPI) formulation reduces treatment time and improves patient convenience. Colistimethate sodium DPI is approved in the EU for the treatment of chronic P. aeruginosa infections in patients with CF aged ≥6 years. In a phase III clinical trial in this patient population, it was determined that the change in percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 s with colistimethate sodium DPI 1.6625 MIU (125 mg) twice daily was noninferior to that with nebulized tobramycin 300 mg/5 mL twice daily. Moreover, patients found colistimethate sodium DPI easier to use than nebulized tobramycin. Colistimethate sodium DPI was generally well tolerated, with a similar adverse event profile to that of nebulized tobramycin, except for a numerically higher incidence of cough and abnormal taste. Most adverse events diminished after 28 days in patients receiving colistimethate sodium DPI, with an occurrence similar to that in nebulized tobramycin recipients. In conclusion, colistimethate sodium DPI administered via the Turbospin® inhaler is a useful option for the treatment of chronic P. aeruginosa infection in patients with CF aged ≥6 years. © 2014 Springer International Publishing Switzerland.

doi:10.3109/01902141003790155
Title:Uptake of all-trans retinoic acidcontaining aerosol by inhalation to lungs in a guinea pig model systemA pilot study
Authors:M.W. SchfferS.S. RoyS. MukherjeeD.E. OngS.K. Das
Absract:Systemic therapies with retinoic acid (RA) can result in toxic side effects without yielding biologically effective levels in target tissues such as lung. The authors adapted a PARI LC Star nebulizer to create a tubular system for short-term inhalation treatment of guinea pigs using a water-miscible formulation of all-trans RA (ATRA) or vehicle. Based on the initial average weight, animals received an estimated average ATRA doses of either 0.32 mg·kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end (low dose, 1.4 mM), or 0.62 mg·kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end (medium dose, 2.8 mM), or 1.26 mg·kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end (high dose, 5.6 mM) 20 minutes per day for 6 consecutive days. This system led to a rise of ATRA levels in lung, but not liver or plasma. Cellular lung levels of retinol, retinyl palmitate, and retinyl stearate also appeared to be unaffected (245.6 ± 10.7, 47.4 ± 3.4, and 132.8 ± 7.7 ng·g@sup_begin-1@sup_end wet weight, respectively). The application of this aerosolized ATRA also induced a dose-dependent protein expression of the cellular retinol-binding protein 1 (CRBP-1) in lung, without apparent harmful side effects. © 2010 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.4103/0250-474X.99008
Title:Formulation and development of metered dose inhalations of salbutamol in solution form
Authors:A. KhaleA. Bajaj
Absract:In the present study attempts were made to prepare metered dose inhalation of salbutamol in solution form and compared it with the marketed metered dose inhalation in suspension form. Solution form of the drug was found better than marketed suspension formulation with respect to homogeneity and content uniformity. Propellant blend P-11 and P-12 in the proportion 30:70 was selected as it gave optimum vapour pressure. Surfactant oleic acid in concentration 10 mg per can was selected as it gave best results with clarity, spray pattern, vapour pressure, content per spray and rate of evaporation. Ethyl alcohol 2 ml per can was used as a cosolvent to give a clear solution, optimum vapour pressure, maximum content per spray and fair rate of evaporation. The selected formulation was subjected to the physico-chemical evaluation tests as per the standard pharmacopoeial procedures and the characteristics of the formulations were further compared with a conventional marketed formulation. In vitro study reveled the net respirable fraction was better than marketed preparation.

pui:355230702
Title:HFA-134a driven salbutamol sulfate metered-dose inhaler: Formulation screening and respiratory tract absorption in rats
Authors:L. DingJ.-S. Zhang
Absract:Aim: To study the hydrofluoroalkane-driven (HFA-134a) salbutamol sulfate(SS) MDI formulation compositions and the respiratory tract absorption in rats. Methods: Solubility determination and orthogonal design were used to aid the screening of non-CFC SS MDI formulations. Rats were exposed to SS MDI via intubation inhalation. Fluorescent HPLC detection was developed to determine plasma SS concentration in rats given the selected SS MDI formulations. Analysis of the plasma drug level-time profiles was performed by the statistical moment approach. Results: Stable and homogeneous non-CFC SS MDI formulations were obtained. The developed HPLC method was validated and used to assay SS levels in the rats after inhalation of the MDI. AUC ratios of the SS/HFA-134a-driven MDI formulation to the reference SS MDI and CFC SS MDI formulation were 109.86% and 135.54%, respectively. Conclusion: It is proven that the absorption of the HFA-134a SS MDI formulation in rats is equivalent to the simulant formulation commercially available oversea and better than CFC formulation.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2010.11.005
Title:Stable dry powder inhaler formulation of tranilast attenuated antigen-evoked airway inflammation in rats
Authors:Y. KawabataY. AokiT. MatsuiK. YamamotoH. SatoS. OnoueS. Yamada
Absract:Tranilast (TL) has been clinically used for the treatment of airway inflammatory diseases, although the clinical use of TL is limited because of its poor solubility and systemic side effects. To overcome these drawbacks, a novel respirable powder of TL (CSD/TL-RP) for inhalation therapy was developed using nanocrystal solid dispersion of TL (CSD/TL). Stability study on CSD/TL-RP was carried out with a focus on inhalation performance. Even after 6 months of storage at room temperature, there were no significant morphological changes in micronized particles on the surface of carrier particles as compared with that before storage. Cascade impactor analyses on CSD/TL-RP demonstrated high inhalation performance with emitted dose and fine particle fraction (FPF) of ca. 98% and 60%, respectively. Long-term storage of CSD/TL-RP resulted in only a slight decrease in FPF value (ca. 54%). Inhaled CSD/TL-RP could attenuate antigen-induced inflammatory events in rats, as evidenced by marked reduction of granulocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and inflammatory biomarkers such as eosinophil peroxidase, myeloperoxidase, and lactate dehydrogenase. These findings were consistent with decreased expression levels of mRNAs for nuclear factor-kappa B and cyclooxygenase-2, typical inflammatory mediators. Given these findings, inhalable TL formulation might be an interesting alternative to oral therapy for the treatment of asthma and other airway inflammatory diseases with sufficient dispersing stability. © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/21678707.2015.1064308
Title:T100: Nebulized-concentrated tobramycin formulation for treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis patients
Authors:Z. EhsanJ. Clancy
Absract:Chronic lung infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PsA) is associated with more rapid pulmonary decline and acute pulmonary exacerbations in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The treatment of airway infection with this organism is particularly challenging and is the focus of many therapeutic interventions. Inhaled antibiotics targeting PsA infection are useful for eradication of PsA as well as management of chronic infection.Areas covered: Herein, we discuss currently available inhaled antibiotics for management of lung infections in CF patients, with a focus on nebulized-concentrated tobramycin (NCT). Results from relevant articles published in the English language are included.Expert opinion: NCT is a concentrated formulation of tobramycin with pharmacokinetics and safety profile similar to tobramycin inhalation solution. Results of a recent trial suggest that NCT may be an attractive inhaled antibiotic to manage CF PsA lung infections, with the capacity for shorter administration time, higher pulmonary drug concentrations and reduced systemic bioequivalence compared to tobramycin inhalation solution.

pui:24180106
Title:A comparison of terbutaline inhaled by Turbuhaler and by a chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) inhaler in children with exercise-induced asthma
Authors:E. SvenoniusM. ArboreliusR. WibergE. StahlM. Svensson
Absract:The present study compared the bronchodilating effect of inhalation from the Turbuhaler (0.5 mg terbutaline x 2) with the effect of inhalation from the chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) inhaler (0.25 mg terbutaline x 4) in children aged 9-17 years with reproducible, exercise-induced asthma (EIA). The treatments were given on two occasions, 5 min apart (terbutaline 0.5 mg + 0.5 mg). The study was performed as a double-blind, double-dummy, and placebo-controlled trial in 12 asthmatic children. The study was conducted on three separate days. The bronchoconstriction was induced by steady running on a treadmill. Forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV@sub_begin1.0@sub_end), vital capacity (VC), and volume of trapped gas (VTG) were measured before and after the exercise test and after treatment. The study showed that the same amount of terbutaline inhaled from the Turbuhaler or from a CFC inhaler is equally effective for reversing EIA, and that the Turbuhaler is possibly more effective for treating spasm in small airways.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2021.102356
Title:Formulation and evaluation of inhalable microparticles of Rizatriptan Benzoate processed by spray freeze-drying
Authors:M. Keyhan shokouhH. FaghihiM. DarabiM. MirmoeiniA. Vatanara
Absract:The aim of the current study was to prepare and evaluate inhalable microparticles of Rizatriptan benzoate in order to further benefit from its pulmonary delivery, the expected enhanced bioavailability and accelerated onset of action. The spray freeze drying (SFD) technique was used to produce microparticles consisting of a fixed amount of a sugar which was either mannitol or trehalose and an amino acid component including leucine, phenylalanine or serine. The powders were then characterized for particle size distribution, morphology, thermal properties and in vitro aerosolization performance. It was demonstrated that various formulations of inhalable Rizatriptan could be efficiently aerosolized and offered acceptable fine particle fraction (FPF) ranging up to 61.1%. In particular, a spray-freeze-dried powder composed of trehalose and phenylalanine showed the most superior inhalation performance (FPF = 61.1%), indicating better dispersion properties of those spherical porous microparticles with less adhesion and agglomeration. These results successfully demonstrated that Rizatriptan could be engineered into respirable microparticles to be proposed as a promising delivery system for fast and effective control of migraine attacks.

doi:10.1080/10826076.2018.1437748
Title:Development and validation of a RP-HPLC method for simultaneous quantification of bedaquiline (TMC207), moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide in a pharmaceutical powder formulation for inhalation
Authors:M.A.M. MominB. RangnekarS.C. Das
Absract:A reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) method for the simultaneous quantification of bedaquiline (TMC207), moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide in a pharmaceutical powder formulation for inhalation has been developed and validated. The powder was simply dissolved in methanol and the analytes separated in a run time of 20 min on a Luna C18 (2) (150 × 4.6 mm, 5 µm) column using gradient elution with methanol and triethylamine phosphate buffer (pH 2.5) delivered at 1.2 mL/min. The detection (with retention time) was carried out at 269 nm (2.9 min) for pyrazinamide, 296 nm (7.0 min) for moxifloxacin and 225 nm (16.3 min) for bedaquiline, respectively. The method was linear for all analytes in the concentration range 1-100 µg/mL with correlation coefficients >0.998. Lower limits of quantitation (µg/mL) of bedaquiline, moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide were 0.56, 0.43 and 0.24, respectively. The method was accurate (relative error in the range −0.2 to 2.2) and precise (%RSD ≤6.2) with recovery in the range 100.0–104.7%. The method was successfully applied to determine the drug content and content uniformity of the three analytes in a spray-dried combination powder formulation for inhalation containing L-leucine.

doi:10.3109/10717544.2015.1037968
Title:Preparation, characterization and pulmonary pharmacokinetics of a new inhalable zanamivir dry powder
Authors:X. CaiY. YangX. XieF. YuY. YangZ. YangT. ZhangX. Mei
Absract:This work describes a new dry powder for inhalation containing zanamivir, which is less hygroscopic than Relenza®. The powders were prepared via a spray-drying technique using mannitol as the carrier. A 5@sup_begin3@sup_end central composite design was used to optimize the formulations. The final optimized powders, characterized with an angle of repose 37.48°, an aerodynamic diameter of 2.346 μm and in vitro deposition of 58.54%, were obtained by using the predicted variable values. Relenza® absorbed a significant amount of water at 66%, 75% and 85% relative humidity (RH; weight changes of approximately 1.38%, 2.18% and 3.72%, respectively). In contrast, the weight change for the zanamivir dry powder inhalation (DPI) was negligible when the RH was increased to 66%. The in vivo potential for the optimized powders was studied further in rats via the endotracheal administration of an 8.4 mg/kg dose. The bioavailability was 116% relative to Relenza®. Fluorescence imaging monitored the zanamivir dry powder inhalers in rats. The results indicated that the zanamivir DPIs were effectively delivered to the lung. These results indicate that the spray-dried zanamivir DPIs were promising for pulmonary delivery.

pui:358797009
Title:Developing therapeutics for the treatment of pediatric asthma
Authors:F. EskandarS. Fleming
Absract:The main goals for developing effective treatments for pediatric asthma are to improve the quality of life of children with asthma by reducing symptoms and the frequency of exacerbations, to allow undisturbed sleep and performance of daily activities, and to ensure a more healthy adult future. Despite advances in modern medical care and the introduction of effective therapies, such as inhaled corticosteroids, poor asthma control exists in clinical practice. This lack of control can be attributed to two primary factors: (i) poor compliance and adherence to treatment; and (ii) poor efficiency of inhalation drug delivery, resulting from the inability of young children to correctly use inhalers that were designed for adults. Both the FDA and EMEA have mandated pediatric testing regulations for drugs indicated for pediatric use and established incentives for the development of such agents; however, there are no inhalers on the market that have been specifically designed to meet the unique needs of children because most inhalers were developed for adults and then used for the treatment of children following minor modifications. Significant effort needs to be invested in the area of pediatric asthma to increase the availability of high-quality, patient-centric medication and delivery systems. © Thomson Reuters (Scientific) Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.07.015
Title:Quality by design - Spray drying of insulin intended for inhalation
Authors:M.J. MaltesenS. BjerregaardL. HovgaardS. HavelundM. van de Weert
Absract:Quality by design (QBD) refers to a holistic approach towards drug development. Important parts of QBD include definition of final product performance and understanding of formulation and process parameters. Inhalation of proteins for systemic distribution requires specific product characteristics and a manufacturing process which produces the desired product. The objective of this study was to understand the spray drying process of insulin intended for pulmonary administration. In particular, the effects of process and formulation parameters on particle characteristics and insulin integrity were investigated. Design of experiments (DOE) and multivariate data analysis were used to identify important process parameters and correlations between particle characteristics. The independent parameters included the process parameters nozzle, feed, and drying air flow rate and drying air temperature along with the insulin concentration as a formulation parameter. The dependent variables included droplet size, geometric particle size, aerodynamic particle size, yield, density, tap density, moisture content, outlet temperature, morphology, and physical and chemical integrity. Principal component analysis was performed to find correlations between dependent and independent variables. Prediction equations were obtained for all dependent variables including both interaction and quadratic terms. Overall, the insulin concentration was found to be the most important parameter, followed by inlet drying air temperature and the nozzle gas flow rate. The insulin concentration mainly affected the particle size, yield and tap density, while the inlet drying air temperature mainly affected the moisture content. No change was observed in physical and chemical integrity of the insulin molecule. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2005.10.043
Title:Effect of milling and sieving on functionality of dry powder inhalation products
Authors:H. SteckelP. MarkefkaH. TeWierikR. Kammelar
Absract:α-Lactose monohydrate is the standard excipient used as diluent or carrier in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. Earlier studies have already revealed that raw materials for the production of inhalation grade lactose have to be carefully selected in order to avoid batch-to-batch variability. In the present study, the effect of milling and milling intensity on the flow properties and the physico-chemical characteristics of lactose crystals has been determined. The milled lactoses were then further processed by sieving to give lactose qualities with identical size distribution data, but different batch history (non-milled and milled at different conditions). These were then used to manufacture low concentration (0.25%) drug blends with the model drugs salbutamol sulphate (SBS) and beclometasonedipropionate (BDP); the blends were analysed with a Multistage Liquid Impinger (MLI) after delivery from an Easyhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end and an Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end device. It could be shown that gentle milling already results in surface defects on the lactose crystal which are further enhanced by using a higher milling intensity. Produced fine lactose particles during the milling process strongly adhere to the lactose surface and cannot be removed by compressed air which is used for the particle sizing. By trend, a higher milling intensity resulted in higher fine particle fractions (FPF) with both devices. Also, SBS was found to generally give higher fine particle fractions than BDP, independent from the device used. In conclusion, lactose pre-treatment by gentle or strong milling affects the carrier surface and thereby the aerosolization properties of drug/lactose blends produced. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.07.034
Title:Development of a standardized dissolution test method for inhaled pharmaceutical formulations
Authors:Y.-J. SonJ.T. McConville
Absract:The aim of this research was to investigate a potential standardized test method to characterize the dissolution properties of formulations intended for pulmonary delivery. A commercially available dissolution tester was adapted to be used as a testing apparatus by incorporation of a membrane containing cassette. The cassette was designed to enclose previously air-classified formulations, so that they could be uniformly tested in the dissolution apparatus. The influence of particle size, amount of drug loading, and the composition of a simulated lung fluid (SLF) dissolution media on the dissolution rate were studied. Dissolution rate was significantly affected by the uniformity of drug loading, and particle size. Diffusion coefficients, estimated using the Higuchi model, showed an increase from 2.28 to 9.60 × 10@sup_begin-7@sup_end cm@sup_begin2@sup_end/h as the particle size decreased. Addition of DPPC (0.02%, w/v) to the SLF dissolution media resulted also resulted in an increase in the diffusion coefficient value. This study demonstrated that the developed method was reproducible and may be used to evaluate the dissolution properties of pharmaceutical inhalation products following their aerodynamic particle classification. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1146/annurev.bioeng.10.061807.160544
Title:Targeted drug-aerosol delivery in the human respiratory system
Authors:C. KleinstreuerZ. ZhangJ.F. Donohue
Absract:Inhalation of drug aerosols is a modern pathway to combat lung diseases. It is also becoming the preferred route for insulin delivery, pain management, cancer therapy, and nanotherapeutics. Popular delivery devices include nebulizers, metered-dose inhalers, and dry-powder inhalers. They are all nondirectional and hence have typically low particle deposition efficiencies in desired nasal or lung areas. Thus, for specific disease treatment with costly and/or aggressive medicine, it is necessary to provide targeted drug-aerosol delivery to predetermined sites in the human respiratory system. Experimental measurements and computer models of particle transport and deposition in nasal and lung airway models are presented. Furthermore, the underlying methodology and performance of pressurized metered dose inhalers as well as new smart inhaler systems are discussed. To maximize respiratory drug delivery to specific sites, an optimal combination of particle characteristics, inhalation waveform, particle release position, and drug-aerosol dosage has to be achieved. Copyright © 2008 by Annual Reviews. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1023/A:1018999707476
Title:Pulmonary delivery of detirelix by intratracheal instillation and aerosol inhalation in the briefly anesthetized dog
Authors:D.B. BennettE. TysonC.A. NerenbergS. MahJ.S. De GrootZ. Teitelbaum
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of the decapeptide detirelix was studied in briefly anesthetized dogs and the pharmacokinetics were examined following intravenous administration, intratracheal instillation, and aerosol inhalation. Detirelix administrations to the lung gave plasma profiles that were extended over two days, and that differed markedly from those of similarly sized peptides. Absorption from the lung after instillation was slow (T(max) = 6.5 ± 3.6 h) with a relative bioavailability of 29 ± 10%. Administration of detirelix-containing aerosols resulted in similar plasma profiles as for administration by instillation. Compartmental and non- compartmental methods of pharmacokinetic analysis indicated no faster absorption from aerosols than from instilled solutions; an absorption rate limiting process may be an explanation. Plasma profiles were not affected by the use of detirelix liquid crystal favoring formulations or destabilizing formulations, and suggested that in situ liquid crystal formation was not an explanation for the slow absorption. No significant changes in pharmacokinetics or systemic uptake were observed during the five-month period of repeated pulmonary administrations. Histopathologic examination revealed the lungs to be essentially normal.

doi:10.1007/s11095-012-0922-2
Title:Respirable low-density microparticles formed in situ from aerosolized brittle matrices
Authors:A.B. WattsY.-B. WangK.P. JohnstonR.O. Williams III
Absract:Purpose: Inhalation of low-density porous particles enables deep lung delivery with less dependence on device design and patient inspiration. The purpose of this study was to implement Thin Film Freezing (TFF) to investigate a novel approach to dry powder inhalation. Methods: Powders produced by TFF were evaluated for aerodynamic and geometric particle size by cascade impaction and laser light scattering, respectively. Density measurements were conducted according to USP methods and calculated using data from particle size measurements. Excipient inclusion and its effect on moisture sorption was measured by Dynamic Vapor Sorption (DVS). Results: TFF-produced brittle matrix powders were sheared apart into respirable microparticles using a passive DPI device, producing fine particle fractions (FPF) up to 69% and mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMAD) as low as 2.6 μm. Particles had a mean geometric diameter ranging from 25 μm to 50 μm and mass densities of approximately 0.01 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end. Powders were susceptible to moisture-induced matrix collapse, capillary forces and electrostatic charging; although formulations containing mannitol or no sugar excipient proved to be more robust. Conclusions: Aerosolized brittle matrices produced by TFF may prove to be a useful platform for highly efficient pulmonary delivery of thermally labile, highly potent, and poorly soluble drugs. © 2012 Springer Science+Business Media New York.

doi:10.2174/1567201815666181024143249
Title:Delivery of dry powders to the lungs: Influence of particle attributes from a biological and technological point of view
Authors:S. ZellnitzE. RobleggJ. PintoE. Fröhlich
Absract:Dry powder inhalers are medical devices used to deliver powder formulations of active pharmaceutical ingredients via oral inhalation to the lungs. Drug particles, from a biological perspective, should reach the targeted site, dissolve and permeate through the epithelial cell layer in order to deliver a therapeutic effect. However, drug particle attributes that lead to a biological activity are not always consistent with the technical requirements necessary for formulation design. For example, small cohesive drug particles may interact with neighbouring particles, resulting in large aggregates or even agglomerates that show poor flowability, solubility and permeability. To circumvent these hurdles, most dry powder inhalers currently on the market are carrier-based formulations. These formulations comprise drug particles, which are blended with larger carrier particles that need to detach again from the carrier during inhalation. Apart from blending process parameters, inhaler type used and patient’s inspiratory force, drug detachment strongly depends on the drug and carrier particle characteristics such as size, shape, solid-state and morphology as well as their interdependency. This review discusses critical particle characteristics. We consider size of the drug (1-5 µm in order to reach the lung), solid-state (crystalline to guarantee stability versus amorphous to improve dissolution), shape (spherical drug particles to avoid macrophage clearance) and surface morphology of the carrier (regular shaped smooth or nano-rough carrier surfaces for improved drug detachment.) that need to be considered in dry powder inhaler development taking into account the lung as biological barrier.

doi:10.1208/s12249-018-1137-6
Title:Optimization of Ciprofloxacin Hydrochloride Spray-Dried Microparticles for Pulmonary Delivery Using Design of Experiments
Authors:M. RazucJ. PiñaM.V. Ramírez-Rigo
Absract:Ciprofloxacin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic for treatment of pulmonary diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis. The purpose of this work was to rationally study the spray drying of ciprofloxacin in order to identify the formulation and operating conditions that lead to a product with aerodynamic properties appropriate for dry powder inhalation. A 2@sup_begin4 − 1@sup_end fractional factorial design was applied to investigate the effect of selected variables (i.e., ciprofloxacin hydrochloride (CIP) concentration, drying air inlet temperature, feed flow rate, and atomization air flow rate) on several product and process parameters (i.e., particle size, aerodynamic diameter, moisture content, densities, porosity, powder flowability, outlet temperature, and process yield) and to determine an optimal condition. The studied factors had a significant effect on the evaluated responses (higher p value 0.0017), except for the moisture content (p value > 0.05). The optimal formulation and operating conditions were as follows: CIP concentration 10 mg/mL, drying air inlet temperature 110°C, feed volumetric flow rate 3.0 mL/min, and atomization air volumetric flow rate 473 L/h. The product obtained under this set had a particle size that guarantees access to the lung, a moisture content acceptable for dry powder inhalation, fair flowability, and high process yield. The PDRX and SEM analysis of the optimal product showed a crystalline structure and round and dimpled particles. Moreover, the product was obtained by a simple and green spray drying method.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.2011.01387.x
Title:Twenty years of HFA pMDI patents: Facts and perspectives
Authors:P. RoguedaA. LallementD. TrainiI. IlievP.M. Young
Absract:Objectives Over the past 20 years, the inhalation drug delivery industry has undergone a quiet revolution after the phasing out of the chlorofluorocarbon propellants used to formulate pressure-metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). This review looks back to the creative landscape of those 20 years through a study of patent application trends. To this end, an analysis of the hydrofluoroalkane pMDIs patent landscape was undertaken. Methods A statistical analysis demonstrates that 20 years after the introduction of hydrofluoroalkanes in the inhalation delivery field, the original patent applications are coming to the end of their legal life. Key findings Detailed analysis revealed that, from a total of 971 of the patents identified, up to 2.3% will expire within the next 5 years, rising to up to 7.3% in the next 10 years. The UK and USA were the main patent destinations and locations of inventive activity, as measured by patent filing location. Interestingly, the UK was the first destination and location of inventive activity in Europe, largely due to the activity of GlaxoSmithKline, followed by Italy, thanks to the work of Trinity-Chiesi. The analysis also showed that patent assignees are not always major pharmaceutical companies, with suppliers of propellants, as well as companies without major inhalation activity (such as Novadel), making substantial contributions to the landscape. Conclusions These developments may have a significant impact on innovation trends and key company activity around novel pMDI formulations, in particular for generics manufacturers. © 2011 The Authors. JPP © 2011 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2004.06.005
Title:The role of particle engineering in relation to formulation and de-agglomeration principle in the development of a dry powder formulation for inhalation of cetrorelix.
Authors:G.S. ZijlstraW.L. HinrichsA.H. de BoerH.W. Frijlink
Absract:We formulated cetrorelix acetate, as an adhesive mixture for use in dry powder inhalation. To achieve the highest possible deposition efficiency we investigated both the influence of different micronization techniques and different inhalers. The Novolizer with an air classifier as the powder de-agglomeration principle and the ISF inhaler were used for in vitro deposition experiments (cascade impaction). Micronization by milling as the classical approach and micronization by spray drying and spray freeze drying as advanced particle engineering techniques were investigated to determine whether advanced techniques are necessary to obtain high fine particle fractions (FPF) for this specific drug. It was found that the effects obtained with a certain micronization technique depended on the complex interaction of the physical characteristics of the drug substance with the type of formulation chosen, as well as with the de-agglomeration principle used. The combination of particle engineering by spray drying and the use of the air classifier technology resulted in a fine particle fraction of 66%, while spray freeze drying yielded extremely fragile particles resulting in a FPF of only 25%. The behaviour of the milled material showed similar trends as the spray dried material but FPF values were lower. It was concluded that when a drug is to be formulated as a powder for inhalation with high fine particle fractions, it is profitable to use advanced particle engineering techniques, however the applied technique should be tuned with the characteristics of the formulation type and process as well as with device development.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2.4.613
Title:Towards screening of inhalation formulations: Measuring interactions with atomic force microscopy
Authors:M. BunkerM. DaviesC. Roberts
Absract:This review charts the progress of atomic force microscopy (AFM) to investigate particle interactions relevant to the performance of inhalers. AFM provides a unique opportunity to examine and quantify single particle behaviour of powdered drugs and excipients in a variety of environmental conditions. An introduction to AFM and particle interactions is given. Comparative experiments that rank adhesion between materials, and quantitative experiments that lead to the measurement of properties such as the work of adhesion and surface energy, are reviewed. The AFM has been widely used to investigate the effects of relative humidity and surface roughness on particle adhesion; these experiments are also reviewed. In the final section, the potential of this approach to screen formulations is discussed. © 2005 Ashley Publications Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.toxlet.2017.07.399
Title:Pre-clinical nebuliser comparisons to allow more effective decision making on device selection
Authors:S. Moore
Absract:The generation output from 25 different nebulisers across >120 pre-clinical inhalation studies were reviewed. The output from the nebuliser was compared against 3 configurations: All supply air through the nebuliser Supply air through the nebuliser and supplementary diluent air Supply air through the nebuliser and an open system relying on the extract to draw the air past the animals The 50 studies for the Medex Aeromist nebuliser gave a generation output (8-24 mL/h) over a range of airflows (15-50 L/min). The R2 value for configuration 1 was 0.8599, 0.8815 for configuration 2 and 0.9522 for configuration 3. Data from 20 other jet nebulisers showed a similar relationship unless limited by airflow throughput. Multiple devices being used concurrently gave similar results. The generation output from 4 different mesh nebulisers (21 studies) varied between 6 to 24 mL/h depending on the formulation composition and strength. The output decreased with increasing formulation strength but was independent of the number of nebu-lisers attached to the exposure system. In conclusion, the generation output from jet nebulisers was not influenced by the formulation composition but the inclusion of supplementary air and the use of an open exposure system. The generation output from the mesh nebulisers was widely variable depending on formulation and formulation strength.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2011.09.014
Title:Nanoparticle agglomerates of fluticasone propionate in combination with albuterol sulfate as dry powder aerosols
Authors:N. El-GendyW. PornputtapitakC. Berkland
Absract:Particle engineering strategies remain at the forefront of aerosol research for localized treatment of lung diseases and represent an alternative for systemic drug therapy. With the hastily growing popularity and complexity of inhalation therapy, there is a rising demand for tailor-made inhalable drug particles capable of affording the most proficient delivery to the lungs and the most advantageous therapeutic outcomes. To address this formulation demand, nanoparticle agglomeration was used to develop aerosols of the asthma therapeutics, fluticasone or albuterol. In addition, a combination aerosol was formed by drying agglomerates of fluticasone nanoparticles in the presence of albuterol in solution. Powders of the single drug nanoparticle agglomerates or of the combined therapeutics possessed desirable aerodynamic properties for inhalation. Powders were efficiently aerosolized (∼75% deposition determined by cascade impaction) with high fine particle fraction and rapid dissolution. Nanoparticle agglomeration offers a unique approach to obtain high performance aerosols from combinations of asthma therapeutics. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.04.033
Title:Inhalation performance of pollen-shape carrier in dry powder formulation: Effect of size and surface morphology
Authors:M.S. HassanR. Lau
Absract:In a previous study, pollen-shape drug carriers are compared with traditional carriers at different drug mixing ratios and flow rates. It is found that pollen-shape drug carriers can deliver large amount of drug particles and reduce drug losses especially at low flow rates and high drug mixing ratios. In this study, the effect of size and surface morphology of pollen-shape carriers on drug delivery performance is assessed. Pollen-shape carrier particles having various sizes and surface asperities are synthesized. Budesonide (Bd) is used as the model drug. The drug delivery performances of the pollen-shape carrier particles are investigated using an Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI) equipped with a Rotahaler@sup_begin®@sup_end at gas flow rates of 30 and 60 L/min. Three drug mixing ratios are considered. While an increase in the carrier particle size has a mild improvement on the ED, it significantly improves the FPF. A sparse surface asperity has negligible effect on the ED at low flow rates but it improves the FPF compared to a dense surface asperity under all experimental conditions. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All Rights Reserved.

pui:607136023
Title:Preparation of budesonide sustained-release dry powder for inhalation and influence of lactose content
Authors:Z.-L. LiangX.-H. WangR. NiL. ZhangM. UweS.-M. Mao
Absract:Using high pressure homogenization method combined with spray-drying, budesonide-loaded chitosan microparticles were prepared and the in vitro release profile was investigated. The microparticles were then blended with lactose using a vortex mixer, influence of mixing speed, mixing time on drug recovery rate and content homogeneity were investigated. Meanwhile, influence of lactose content on drug recovery rate, content homogeneity, powder flowability and in vitro deposition were studied. It turned out that budesonide was released from the microparicles in a sustained manner, with fine particle fraction as high as 46.0%, but the powder flowability was poor. After blending with 10 times of lactose, the drug recovery rate was 96.5%, with relative standard deviation of drug content 2.5%, and fine particle fraction of the formulation increased to 59.6% with good flowability. It's demonstrated that using a vortex mixer, budesonide sustained-release dry powder for inhalation with good recovery and content homogeneity could be prepared, the formulation had good flowability and was suitable for pulmonary inhaling.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.118901
Title:Particle engineered mannitol for carrier-based inhalation – A serious alternative?
Authors:N. HertelG. BirkR. Scherließ
Absract:In dry powder inhalation (DPI), larger carrier particles, typically lactose, are blended with micronised active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particles to improve handling, processability and inhalable fraction. Alternative carrier materials were researched for years, but did not enter the market yet. In this study, a common lactose carrier for DPI formulations and a spray granulated mannitol carrier were compared to evaluate if the particle engineered mannitol can be considered a serious alternative. Blends with five different API concentrations (0.1 to 4%) were prepared with two APIs. Physical carrier and blend characterisation regarding particle size, morphology, density, shear cell testing and dosing behaviour were performed. Aerodynamic assessment was done using two different inhaler devices (one capsule-based inhaler and one reservoir-based inhaler). In addition, the influence of different flow rates was examined. Results indicated that uniform dosing in metered mass and delivered dose over this API concentration range was achieved due to good flowability of the blends. Furthermore, linear dose delivery could be seen over the added API concentrations. Impaction analysis showed that the respirable fractions of mannitol blends were comparable (for salbutamol sulphate blends) or higher (for budesonide blends) than with a standard lactose carrier.

doi:10.1089/08942680152744695
Title:Drug delivery performance of the mometasone furoate dry powder Inhaler
Authors:T.T. YangS. LiB. WykaD. Kenyom
Absract:The mometasone furoate dry powder inhaler (MF-DPI) is a multiple-dose, breath-actuated inhaler that uses agglomerates of micronized MF and lactose. In vitro analyses evaluated dose uniformity, variability, and particle size distribution of the MF-DPI. Tests of first, middle, and end doses from 10 inhalers each of the 200-μg MF/inhalation and 400-μg MF/inhalation dose sizes found that delivered doses (doses emitted from the inhaler) ranged from 91% to 112% of claimed doses for all tested DPIs. The mean MF doses delivered at 28.3 L/min were 100% and 94% of the doses delivered at 60 L/min for the 200-μg and 400-μg dose sizes, respectively; the relative standard deviation of doses was ≤6.1% within this range of inhalation rates. At a flow rate of 60 L/min, the mean delivered doses, compared to claimed doses for inspiration times of 1-3 sec, were 102-104% for the 200-μg dose size and 98.8-102% for the 400-μg dose size. The mean cumulative fraction of dose delivered at 60 L/min for 2 sec which consisted of particles of <6.5 μm in diameter was 39.9% (±2.5 SD; n = 9) for the 200-μg dose size and 35.6% (±3.4 SD; n = 9) for the 400-μg dose size. All MF-DPI inhalers tested were well within U.S. and European compendial standards and regulatory guidelines for dose uniformity. An appropriate and reproducible fraction of the delivered dose was within the optimal particle size range for therapeutic effectiveness.

doi:10.1002/(SICI)1098-2299(199912)48:4<178::AID-DDR5>3.0.CO;2-I
Title:Sustained release of insulin from insoluble inhaled particles
Authors:R. VanbeverA. Ben-JebriaJ.D. MintzesR. LangerD.A. Edwards
Absract:Conventional slow-acting insulin preparations for subcutaneous injection, e.g., suspensions of the complex with protamine and/or zinc, were reformulated as dry powders for inhalation and the insoluble aerosol tested for providing sustained insulin plasma levels. Large porous particles made of lactose, albumin, and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, and incorporating insulin, protamine, and/or zinc chloride were prepared using spray-drying. Integrity of insulin after spray-drying and insulin insolubilization in spray-dried particles was verified in vitro. The pharmacokinetic profile of the formulation delivered by inhalation and subcutaneous injection was assessed in vivo in the rat. The formulation process of insulin as dry powders did not alter insulin integrity and did not impede, in most cases, insulin insolubilization by protamine and/or zinc. Large porous insulin particles presented 7 μm mass mean geometric particle diameters, 0.1 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end bulk powder tap densities and theoretical aerodynamic diameters suitable for deep lung deposition (in the range of 2.2-2.5 μm). The dry powders exhibited 40% respirable fractions in the Andersen cascade impactor and 58-75% in the Aero-Breather(TM). Insoluble inhaled insulin provided sustained insulin plasma levels for half a day, similar to injected insulin, and exhibited a bioavailability of 80.5% relative to subcutaneous injection of the same formulation. (C) 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2012.08.007
Title:A novel dry powder inhalable formulation incorporating three first-line anti-tubercular antibiotics
Authors:J.G.Y. ChanH.-K. ChanC.A. PrestidgeJ.A. DenmanP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Treatment for tuberculosis (TB) using the standard oral antibiotic regimen is effective but inefficient, requiring high drug dosing and lengthy treatment times. Three concurrent first-line antibiotics recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines are pyrazinamide, rifampicin and isoniazid. Combining these antibiotics in a novel formulation for dry powder inhalation (DPI) may facilitate rapid and efficient resolution of local and systemic infection. However, spray-dried individually, these antibiotics were found to be physically unstable. A solution of the three antibiotics, at the WHO-recommended ratio, was spray-dried. The collected powder was assessed by a series of in vitro methods to investigate aerosol performance, particle physico-chemical characteristics and dissolution profile. Particles obtained were spherical with a surface composed primarily of rifampicin, as identified by TOF-SIMS. A mass median aerodynamic diameter of 3.5 ± 0.1 μm and fine particle fraction (<5 μm) of 45 ± 3% indicated excellent aerosol performance. The combination powder was differentiated by the presence of rifampicin dihydrate and the delta polymorph of pyrazinamide. Quantitative analysis indicated individual particles contained the three antibiotics at the expected proportions (400:150:75 w/w). This excipient-free triple antibiotic DPI formulation could be used as a significant enhanced treatment for TB. © 2012 Published by Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.0876
Title:Inhaled insulin: Too soon to be forgotten?
Authors:P. ZarogoulidisN. PapanasG. KouliatsisD. SpyratosK. ZarogoulidisE. Maltezos
Absract:Inhalation is a potentially viable route of administration for numerous agents. In diabetes mellitus, the need for frequent injections to achieve ideal glycemic control remains a significant limitation for initiating and complying with insulin therapy in a large number of patients. To overcome this barrier, inhaled insulin was developed. The inhalation form of regular human insulin has been tested and administered in a large number of trials. Respiratory capacity was evaluated in patients with normal lung parenchyma in whom inhaled insulin was administered without complications. However, issues like cost, bulky device, fear for lung safety, and the small number of studies in subjects with underlying respiratory disease prevented widespread use of this new mode of delivery. In the present review, we will suggest a number of methods that could be applied in this form of administration to maximize drug absorption and fully exploit the advantages of this route of administration. © Copyright 2011, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2011.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2014.909841
Title:Multi-breath dry powder inhaler for delivery of cohesive powders in the treatment of bronchiectasis
Authors:P.M. YoungR.O. SalamaB. ZhuG. PhillipsJ. CrapperH.-K. ChanD. Traini
Absract:A series of co-engineered macrolide-mannitol particles were successfully prepared using azithromycin (AZ) as a model drug. The formulation was designed to target local inflammation and bacterial colonization, via the macrolide component, while the mannitol acted as mucolytic and taste-masking agent. The engineered particles were evaluated in terms of their physico-chemical properties and aerosol performance when delivered via a novel high-payload dry powder Orbital@sup_begin™@sup_end inhaler device that operates via multiple inhalation manoeuvres. All formulations prepared were of suitable size for inhalation drug delivery and contained a mixture of amorphous AZ with crystalline mannitol. A co-spray dried formulation containing 200 mg of 50:50 w/w AZ: mannitol had 57.6% ± 7.6% delivery efficiency with a fine particle fraction (≤6.8 μm) of the emitted aerosol cloud being 80.4% ± 1.1%, with minimal throat deposition (5.3 ± 0.9%). Subsequently, it can be concluded that the use of this device in combination with the co-engineered macrolide-mannitol therapy may provide a means of treating bronchiectasis.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2007.05.001
Title:Adherence to treatment by patients with asthma or COPD: Comparison between inhaled drugs and transdermal patch
Authors:G. TamuraK. Ohta
Absract:An Internet-based questionnaire study involving patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and parents of children with asthma was conducted to evaluate adherence to treatment, and convenience of inhalation and transdermal formulations. Valid responses were obtained from 1470 patients. Among asthmatic patients, the percentage of those who selected "taking as prescribed" was 52.7% for inhalant users and 83.2% for transdermal users. Among patients with COPD, the corresponding values were 54.7% and 86.6%. There was a significant difference (p<0.01) in treatment compliance between inhalation and transdermal formulations in both groups. The most common reason for poor adherence was "frequency of administration", and 83.2% of the patients preferred a once-daily administration. In addition, patients who had used both types of formulations preferred the transdermal ones. In conclusion, health care professionals should further educate their patients about the importance of treatment with inhalants, since poor adherence to treatment with inhalation formulations significantly hinders achievement of optimal efficacy. In addition, transdermal tulobuterol patch, which is administered once daily as a long-acting, β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist, appeared to be useful for long-term control of both asthma and COPD. © 2007.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200039001-00006
Title:Comparison of the systemic availability of fluticasone propionate in healthy volunteers and patients with asthma
Authors:P.T. Daley-YatesJ. TournantR.L. Knnka
Absract:Objectives: The aim of this analysis was to compare the systemic exposure to inhaled fluticasone propionate (FP) after administration of either single or repeated dose regimens via dry powder and metered-dose inhalers in patients with asthma and healthy volunteers. Background: The pharmacokinetics of FP, a topically active glucocorticoid administered by inhalation for the treatment of asthma and rhinitis, are well characterised in healthy volunteers. As asthma is characterised by pathophysiological changes in the lung, it may be inappropriate to use data from studies in healthy volunteers to predict the deposition and absorption of FP in patients with asthma. Methods and results: Pooled data from 13 pharmacokinetic studies showed that the systemic availability of FP (measured as area under the plasma FP concentration-time curve) after single or multiple administration by inhalation was 2 to 3-times lower in patients with asthma than in healthy volunteers. This observation correlated well with the systemic effects of FP in the 2 groups. Reduction in 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion after inhalation of FP (determined in 9 of the studies) was greater in healthy volunteers than in patients with asthma. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression caused by systemic exposure to FP in adults with asthma is therefore substantially less than that in healthy volunteers. Conclusion: Differences in the deposition of FP in the lungs of patients with asthma, probably caused by obstructed inspiratory airflow, may explain this observation.

doi:10.1002/jps.21450
Title:Dry powder formulations for inhalation of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol xinafoate microcrystals
Authors:D. MurnaneG.P. MartinC. Marriott
Absract:Direct crystallization of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particles in the inhalable size range of 1-6 μm may overcome surface energization resulting from micronization. The aerosolization of fluticasone propionate (FP) and salmeterol xinafoate (SX) microcrystals produced by aqueous crystallization from poly(ethylene glycol) solutions was investigated using a twin stage impinger following blending with lactose. Fine particle fractions from SX formulations ranged from 15.98 ± 2.20% from SX crystallized from PEG 6000 to 26.26 ± 1.51% for SX crystallized from PEG 400. The FPF of microcrystal formulations increased as the particle size of microcrystals was increased. The aerosolization of SX from DPI blends was equivalent for the microcrystals and the micronized material. FP microcrystals, which had a needlelike morphology, produced similar FPFs (PEG 400: 17.15 ± 0.68% and PEG 6000: 15.46 ± 0.97%) to micronized FP (mFP; 14.21 ± 0.54). The highest FPF (25.66 ± 1.51%) resulted from the formulation of FP microcrystals with the largest median diameter (FP PEG 400B: 6.14 ± 0.17 μm). Microcrystallization of SX and FP from PEG solvents offers the potential for improving control of particulate solid state properties and was shown to represent a viable alternative to micronization for the production of particles for inclusion in dry powder inhalation formulations. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

pui:24058060
Title:Assessment of aerosol delivery systems for recombinant human deoxyribonuclease
Authors:D.C. CipollaA.R. ClarkH.-K. ChanI. GondaS.J. Shire
Absract:Recombinant human deoxyribonuclease (rhDNase) is a new protein drug intended for the inhalation treatment of diseases accompanied by the presence in the airways of purulent sputum containing high levels of DNA. This paper describes the characterization of the aerosol cloud formed by nebulization of aqueous solutions of rhDNase. It is shown that large differences exist in the droplet size distributions produced by various delivery systems. The enzymatic activity and structural integrity of rhDNase is shown to be preserved when jet nebulizers are used to form the aerosols. However, some ultrasonic nebulizers cause denaturation of the protein, probably due to elevated temperature in the equipment.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.11.040
Title:Particle engineering of materials for oral inhalation by dry powder inhalers. II - Sodium cromoglicate
Authors:L.M. NolanJ. LiL. TajberO.I. CorriganA.M. Healy
Absract:Sodium cromoglicate is an antiasthmatic and antiallergenic drug used in inhalation therapy and commonly administered by a dry powder inhaler. In the present study we sought to examine the feasibility of producing nanoporous microparticles (NPMPs) of this hydrophilic material by adaptation of a spray drying process previously applied to hydrophobic drugs, and to examine the physicochemical and in vitro deposition properties of the spray dried particles in comparison to a commercial product. The storage stability of successfully prepared NPMPs was assessed under a number of conditions (4 °C with dessicant, 25 °C at 60% relative humidity and 25 °C with dessicant). Spray dried sodium cromoglicate was amorphous in nature. NPMPs of sodium cromoglicate displayed superior aerodynamic properties resulting in improved in vitro drug deposition, as assessed by Andersen Cascade Impactor and twin impinger studies, in comparison to the commercial product, Intal @sup_begin®@sup_end. Deposition studies indicated that porosity and sphericity were important factors in improving deposition properties. The optimum solvent system for NPMP production was water:methanol:n-butyl acetate, as spherical NPMPs spray dried from this solvent system had a higher respirable fraction than non-spherical NPMPs of sodium cromoglicate (spray dried from methanol:n-butyl acetate), non-porous sodium cromoglicate (spray dried from water) and micronised sodium cromoglicate (Intal@sup_begin®@sup_end). While particle morphology was altered by storage at high humidity (60% RH) and in vitro deposition performance deteriorated, it was possible to maintain NPMP morphology and aerosolisation performance by storing the powder with dessicant.© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/jps.21529
Title:Pulmonary selectivity and local pharmacokinetics of ambroxol hydrochloride dry powder inhalation in rat
Authors:Y.C. RenL. WangH.B. HeX. Tang
Absract:The aim of this study was to investigate the local pharmacokinetics and site-specific target efficiency of ambroxol hydrochloride (AH) dry powder inhalation (DPI) by comparing lung epithelial lining fluid (ELF) and plasma AH levels after tracheal administration (TA) with those after intravenous administration. Twelve rats were divided into two groups, one of which was given AH DPI (20 mg/kg) via the trachea and the other was given the same dose AH by intravenous injection (i.v.). Afterwards, each group was subdivided into two groups. The concentration of AH in the ELF was determined by microdialysis in one group while the concentration of AH in plasma was determined in the other group. After AHDPI (20 mg/kg) was given via the trachea, AH achieved a high local concentration in ELF and reached a C@sub_beginmax@sub_end at 1.5 h in plasma. After the same dose AH was given by i.v., AH reached a C@sub_beginmax@sub_end in ELF at 1.25 h. The (AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end)@sub_beginELF@sub_end/(AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end) @sub_beginplasma@sub_end ratio (1.05-2.25) after TA differed significantly from the ratio (0.029-0.039) observed after intravenous administration (p < 0.05). All these results indicate that AH DPI can be delivered to a specific targeted site and achieve high target efficiency in ELF. DPI could be a useful drug delivery system for AH therapy of pulmonary diseases. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

pui:11177168
Title:Inhibition of allergen-induced asthma by three forms of sodium cromoglycate
Authors:P.A. FrithR.E. RuffinE.F. Juniper
Absract:The effect of three forms of sodium cromoglycate (SCG), 20 mg, on allergen-induced early asthmatic responses was examined in ten stable asthmatics. Dose response allergen inhalation tests were performed on five occasions at intervals of from 1 to 2 weeks to determine the provocation concentration producing a 20% reduction (PC@sub_begin20@sub_end allergen) in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end. Placebo was given before the first and the last tests to determine the reproducibility of responses to allergen over the study period; reduced responsiveness was observed in eight of the ten subjects. Major changes in levels of specific serum antibodies of the IgE and IgG classes did not serve to explain the changes in bronchial responses although there was a trend which suggested IgG-related desensitization. The observed changes in bronchial responses and antibody levels illustrate the requirement for tests of reproducibility of responses by the use of placebo controls at the beginning and end of a series of allergen inhalation challenges. SCG as (1) a micronized powder with lactose, (2) micropellets without lactose, or (3) an aerosol, were inhaled double-blind, in random order, 5 min before the additional three allergen inhalation tests. PC@sub_begin20@sub_end allergen was reduced following SCG in seven subjects; the differences were statistically significant for the group. There was no observed difference in efficacy between the different forms of SCG. In this study, the efficacy of SCG could not be related to age, atopic status, the initial level of allergen-specific IgE antibody, baseline FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, level of bronchial responsiveness to inhaled histamine or an effect of SCG on responsiveness to histamine.

doi:10.1080/03639040802698794
Title:Influence of carrier surface fines on dry powder inhalation formulations
Authors:A.M. BoshhihaN.A. Urbanetz
Absract:Background: The performance of carrier-based dry powder inhalation formulations strongly depends on particle interactions between the drug and the carrier. Among other factors like particle size and shape, surface properties of the interacting partners play a decisive role. This study aims at investigating the effect of carrier surface characteristics on the in vitro deposition of ordered mixtures containing salbutamol sulfate as a drug and lactose and mannitol as model carrier compounds. Methods: The wet decantation method was used to remove the carrier fines adhered to the carrier surface and to obtain smoother carrier surfaces. In vitro deposition was investigated using the Next Generation Impactor. Results: In comparison to the formulations containing untreated carriers, the removal of carrier fines by wet decantation leads to a reduced in vitro deposition. This is possibly caused by an increase in the surface smoothness and an increase in the number of high energetic spots. © 2009 Informa UK, Ltd.

pui:44224956
Title:Diabetes therapy trials with inhaled insulin.
Authors:S.E. Fineberg
Absract:Administration of insulin by inhalation was first attempted > 50 years ago. At that time, little was known concerning effective delivery systems and insulin formulations. The recent development of pulmonary delivery systems for the administration of insulin is driven by the reluctance of patients and their providers to initiate insulin earlier in the course of Type 2 diabetes, the desire to reduce the number of daily insulin injections for both Type 1 and 2 patients, and the recent emphasis on intensified glycaemic control including postprandial glycaemic control. The deep lung is a unique mucosal tissue having a surface area of > 100 m2 and is readily accessible both to the external environment and to drug delivery, provided that appropriate conditions are met. There have been four mid- to late-phase pulmonary insulin programmes using modern inhalation devices that will be reported in this paper. The programmes differ in the choice of delivery systems, the formulations of insulin and reported bioavailability, pharmacokinetic and glucodynamic profiles and adverse events. However, all systems successfully deliver insulin to the deep lung and biological effectiveness compares favourably with injected subcutaneous insulins.

pui:37305172
Title:Falsification of breath alcohol testing by inhalation sprays, oral hygiene liquids and oral gels containing alcohol
Authors:A. DettlingA. SchuffG. SkoppP. Strohbeck-KühnerR. LutzH.-T. Haffner
Absract:Five test persons not having drunk alcohol for a certain period of time used various therapeutic products containing ethanol (inhalation sprays, oral hygiene liquids, oral gels) in the form and dosage recommended by the manufacturer. Breath alcohol testing was initiated half a minute later, using a Siemens Alcomat®, and was continued in as compact a sequence as possible. Erroneous breath alcohol concentrations were registered up to 12,5 minutes after the use of products. By means of mathematical extrapolation above the shown value of the Siemens Alcomat®, it was established that, under consideration of in dubio pro reo, significant false results concerning residual alcohol in the mouth are to be feared up to 20 minutes after the use of products. Depending on the medicine applied, considerable reproducible differences between individuals regarding the duration of residual alcohol in the mouth were observed. These were independent from odonto-stomatological findings, especially from prothetical supply with bridges and the presence of gingival pockets. The resulting recommendation is that the so-called control period be extended to 30 minutes.

doi:10.1016/S0032-5910(02)00064-5
Title:Primary crystal growth during spherical agglomeration in liquid: Designing an ideal dry powder inhalation system
Authors:K. IkegamiY. KawashimaH. TakeuchiH. YamamotoN. IsshikiD.-I. MomoseK. Ouchi
Absract:Spherical agglomerates of steroid KSR-592, consisting of fine primary drug crystals suitable for dry powder inhalation (DPI), were prepared by the spherical agglomeration method in liquid with a bridging liquid. It was found that the particle size of primary crystals increased until the dispersing medium was saturated with the bridging liquid introduced to the system, whereas the spherical agglomeration of primary crystals continued even after the saturation. The growth rates of primary crystals and agglomerates increased with an increase in the temperature and/or a reduction in the agitation speed of the system. The growth of primary crystals in the spherical agglomerates was explained by a crystallization and fusion mechanism proposed by us. The primary crystals were mechanically stronger than their agglomerates so that the agglomerates were disintegrated easily into the primary crystals, which retained their original size, under the shear force generated on being mixed with carrier particles for DPI. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3109/10717544.2015.1114047
Title:Loco-regional administration of nanomedicines for the treatment of lung cancer
Authors:G. Garrastazu PereiraA.J. LawsonF. ButtiniF. Sonvico
Absract:Lung cancer poses one of the most significant challenges to modern medicine, killing thousands every year. Current therapy involves surgical resection supplemented with chemotherapy and radiotherapy due to high rates of relapse. Shortcomings of currently available chemotherapy protocols include unacceptably high levels of systemic toxicity and low accumulation of drug at the tumor site. Loco-regional delivery of nanocarriers loaded with anticancer agents has the potential to significantly increase efficacy, while minimizing systemic toxicity to anticancer agents. Local drug administration at the tumor site using nanoparticulate drug delivery systems can reduce systemic toxicities observed with intravenously administered anticancer drugs. In addition, this approach presents an opportunity for sustained delivery of anticancer drug over an extended period of time. Herein, the progress in the development of locally administered nanomedicines for the treatment of lung cancer is reviewed. Administration by inhalation, intratumoral injection and means of direct in situ application are discussed, the benefits and drawbacks of each modality are explored.

doi:10.1111/j.1368-5031.2005.00747.x
Title:Idealhalers or realhalers? A comparison of Diskus and Turbuhaler
Authors:L. BorgströmL. AskingL. Thorsson
Absract:Medication for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease should be given locally by inhalation. There is, however, no such thing as an ideal inhaler, or 'Idealhaler', which has all desired properties with no drawbacks. In this short review, we have compared the relative merits of the two most commonly used dry powder inhalers - Turbuhaler® and Diskus™. Clinical effect is related to the amount of inhaled drug that reaches the lungs, and this in turn depends on the amount of fine particles generated at inhalation. Turbuhaler® is more than twice as effective as Diskus™ at generating fine particles, and the higher lung deposition with Turbuhaler® is accompanied by a lower variability in lung deposition. Compared with Diskus™, the lung deposition with Turbuhaler® is affected less by factors such as humidity. © Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 2005.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2018.05.018
Title:Preparation and Quality Evaluation of Salvianolic Acids and Tanshinones Dry Powder Inhalation
Authors:J. WangW. ZhaiJ. YuJ. WangJ. Dai
Absract:Salvianolic acids and tanshinones both exhibit efficacy in treating idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), but their formulation limits their clinical use. This study aimed to prepare the salvianolic acids and tanshinones dry powder for inhalation (SPI) to achieve pulmonary delivery for the treatment of IPF. The variable quantities of salvianolic acids and tanshinones composite powder were optimized using the central composite design-response surface method. Different carriers with various drug-carrier ratios were optimized to prepare SPI. The final optimized formulation of SPI was as follows: InhaLac 230@sup_begin®@sup_end was selected as the carrier with drug:carrier = 1:6, and the milled lactose InhaLac 400@sup_begin®@sup_end was added at 5%. The developed SPI characterized with an angle of repose 52.46 ± 1.04° Carr's index of 34.00 ± 0.50% and showed high lung deposition in vitro, indicating the potential of pulmonary delivery for the treatment of IPF.

doi:10.1089/08942680150506358
Title:Guidelines for devices and choices
Authors:M.L. Everard
Absract:Asthma patients can be treated safely and effectively with the compounds and inhalation devices currently available. However, the choice of devices is so wide that the healthcare professional may be easily confused, and the effectiveness of treatment reduced. Clear guidelines are needed to help resolve this difficulty; however, those currently available do not contain enough useful information on the different delivery systems to assist the selection process. The function of the anti-asthma drug (i.e., preventer or reliever) should determine the choice of device. For inhaled corticosteroids, the device should provide effective and reliable delivery, while simplicity in use will aid good inhalation technique. A device that minimizes systemic absorption of these drugs will improve drug safety. The devices of choice are pressurized metered dose-inhalers (pMDIs) with spacers and some dry powder inhalers (DPIs). The main selection criteria for short-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists are portability and patient acceptability. DPIs and pMDIs are the most suitable systems for these drugs. Cost is an important consideration for both drug types.

pui:21167152
Title:Formulation and in vitro evaluation of pressurized inhalation aerosols containing isotropic systems of lecithin and water
Authors:R.M. EvansS.J. FarrN.A. ArmstrongS.M. Chatham
Absract:Reverse micellization of nonionic surfactants in apolar media was applied to the formulation of solution phase, pressurized inhalation aerosols, employing soya lecithin (SPC) and water in chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) blends. The use of a 30/70 mixture of trichlorofluoromethane (P11) and dichlorodifluoromethane (P12) resulted in the formation of stable, isotropic systems containing 0.5-2.0% (w/v) SPC and solubilized water; R (moles water/moles SPC), 0.9 to 4.28. In systems containing < 30% P11, phase separation became apparent, particularly at higher water and surfactant concentrations. Dramatic changes in solution viscosity were noted on increasing R values and were attributed to an increase in asymmetry of SPC micelles. Dynamic fractionation of the output from pressurized aerosols using a four-stage liquid impinger showed that the respirable fraction (as measured by the percentage of emitted droplets with aerodynamic diameters < 5.5 μm) was highly dependent on SPC concentration and R. A significant correlation between RF and actuator score, based on orifice diameter and length, was also found and confirmed that the highest RF values were achieved with the systems of lowest SPC and water concentrations sprayed through an actuator with the smallest and shortest orifice dimensions. This novel mechanism for the formulation of hydrophilic drugs as solutions within CFC-based pressurized aerosols may offer advantages over the traditional suspension approach to pulmonary drug delivery.

pui:9074502
Title:Application of adrenoceptor agonists by metered dose inhaler
Authors:G. KaikJ. BonelliG. Hitzenberger
Absract:In 12 healthy volunteers the heart rate following 5,0 mg terbutaline administered by 4 different routes (inhalation by metered dose inhaler and jet nebulizer; tablets and solution orally) was investigated ECG was registered continuously over a 120 min period. Each mode of administration was followed by nearly the same increase of heart rate, both aerosols showing the quickest onset of action.

doi:10.1213/ANE.0000000000005137
Title:Carbon Dioxide Absorption during Inhalation Anesthesia: A Modern Practice
Authors:J.M. FeldmanJ. HendrickxR.R. Kennedy
Absract:CO@sup_begin2@sup_endabsorbents were introduced into anesthesia practice in 1924 and are essential when using a circle system to minimize waste by reducing fresh gas flow to allow exhaled anesthetic agents to be rebreathed. For many years, absorbent formulations consisted of calcium hydroxide combined with strong bases like sodium and potassium hydroxide. When Sevoflurane and Desflurane were introduced, the potential for toxicity (compound A and CO, respectively) due to the interaction of these agents with absorbents became apparent. Studies demonstrated that strong bases added to calcium hydroxide were the cause of the toxicity, but that by eliminating potassium hydroxide and reducing the concentration of sodium hydroxide to <2%, compound A and CO production is no longer a concern. As a result, CO@sup_begin2@sup_endabsorbents have been developed that contain little or no sodium hydroxide. These CO@sup_begin2@sup_endabsorbent formulations can be used safely to minimize anesthetic waste by reducing fresh gas flow to approach closed-circuit conditions. Although absorbent formulations have been improved, practices persist that result in unnecessary waste of both anesthetic agents and absorbents. While CO@sup_begin2@sup_endabsorbents may seem like a commodity item, differences in CO@sup_begin2@sup_endabsorbent formulations can translate into significant performance differences, and the choice of absorbent should not be based on unit price alone. A modern practice of inhalation anesthesia utilizing a circle system to greatest effect requires reducing fresh gas flow to approach closed-circuit conditions, thoughtful selection of CO@sup_begin2@sup_endabsorbent, and changing absorbents based on inspired CO@sup_begin2@sup_end

doi:10.1111/j.1399-5448.2009.00597.x
Title:Successful treatment of severe subcutaneous insulin resistance with inhaled insulin therapy
Authors:A.A.E.M. van Alfen-van der VeldenC. NoordamB.E. de GalanJ.J.G. Hoorweg-NijmanP.G. VoorhoeveC. Westerlaken
Absract:The potential of inhaled insulin therapy for severe resistance to subcutaneous insulin was tested in a 7-yr old boy with type 1 diabetes mellitus. The efficiency of 1 mg inhaled insulin (Exubera@sup_begin®@sup_end) was examined by a 4-h euglycemic clamp study. During the clamp, the glucose infusion rate started to increase 25 min after inhalation and peaked 120 min after inhalation. Subsequently, a trial of inhaled insulin monotherapy was initiated consisting of pre-meal inhalations and one inhalation during the night. Since glycemic control remained fair (HbA1c ∼8.5%), this therapy was continued. Over the ensuing 18 months, mild keto-acidosis occurred twice during gastro-enteritis. Inhaled insulin was well tolerated and pulmonary function did not deteriorate. We conclude that severe resistance to subcutaneous insulin does not preclude sufficient absorption of insulin delivered by pulmonary. © 2009 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

doi:10.1691/ph.2007.10.7027
Title:Physicochemical compatibility of nebulizable drug mixtures containing dornase alfa and ipratropium and/or albuterol
Authors:I. KrämerA. SchwabeR. LichtinghagenW. Kamin
Absract:Patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF) often need to inhale multiple doses of different nebulizable drugs per day. Patients attempt to shorten the time consuming administration procedure by mixing drug solutions/suspensions for simultaneous inhalation. The objective of this experimental study was to determine whether mixtures of Pulmozyme® inhalation solution with Atrovent® or Sultanol® are physicochemically compatible. Drug combinations were prepared in accordance with the product information and clinical practice by mixing the content of one respule Pulmozyme® with 2 mL Atrovent® LS and 0.5 mL Sultanol® Inhalationslösung (inhalation solution) or with one respule of either Atrovent® 500 μg/2 mL Fertiginhalat (unit dose formulation) or Sultanol® forte Fertiginhalat. Test solutions were stored at room temperature and exposed to light. Dornase alfa activity was determined by a kinetic colorimetric DNase activity assay. Ipratropium bromide and albuterol concentrations were investigated by a stability-indicating HPLC assay with ultraviolet detection. Physical compatibility was determined by visual inspection and measurements of pH and osmolality. Ipratropium bromide and albuterol concentrations were not affected by mixing the drug products. Dornase alfa activity is affected by benzalkonium chloride, used as excipient in Atrovent® LS and Sultanol® Inhalationslösung, and disodium edetate used as an excipient in Atrovent® LS. Patients should be advised not to mix Pulmozyme® with Atrovent® LS and/or Sultanol® Inhalationslösung, because of the incompatibility reaction. Mixtures of Pulmozyme® with Atrovent® 500 μg/2 mL Fertiginhalat or Sultanol® forte Fertiginhalat can be designated as compatible for a limited period of time.

doi:10.1007/PL00007646
Title:Effect of terbutaline on exercise capacity and pulmonary function in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:E.T. IversenT. SørensenT. HeckscherJ.I. Jensen
Absract:The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of a single dose of a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist, terbutaline (Bricanyl Turbuhaler®), on resting lung function and exercise capacity in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized crossover study and outpatients from a department of pulmonary medicine at a major inner- city hospital, we examined 26 individuals with chronic obstructive lung disease who met the criteria of 40% ≤ FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end ≤ 70% of predicted, FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end/FVC ≤ 70%, and ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end ≤ 200 ml 20 min after inhalation of 1 mg of terbutaline. The patients inhaled 2.5 mg of terbutaline and matched placebo. At rest, terbutaline caused significant increases in D(L)CO, MVV(12sec), and all spirometric indices derived from the flow-volume loop, the increases also being significantly larger than those after inhalation of 1 mg of terbutaline for FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, FVC, and PEF. The peak work rate was unchanged after terbutaline. Oxygen uptake, ventilation, and tidal volume at peak work rate increased significantly, whereas carbon dioxide elimination increased insignificantly. Cumulative oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide elimination during progressive exercise to exhaustion and 10 min of recovery were significantly higher after terbutaline. We concluded that despite significant improvements in resting lung function, inhalation of 2.5 mg of terbutaline did not increase exercise capacity, but it increased cumulative oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide elimination during exercise and recovery, presumably because of a thermogenic effect of terbutaline.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119592
Title:Performance tuning of particle engineered mannitol in dry powder inhalation formulations
Authors:N. HertelG. BirkR. Scherließ
Absract:Typically, smooth lactose particles are used as carrier in dry powder formulations for inhalation. Two classical approaches to improve their aerodynamic behaviour are the addition of fines (milled lactose) or magnesium stearate (MgSt). Mannitol (Parteck® M DPI) as an alternative carrier was used in this study. It has an irregular particle size distribution and a large and rough surface. This could be challenging for the detachment of micronised drug upon inhalation and it is unclear whether classic strategies for the optimisation of aerodynamic performance can be applied. In contrast, its rough surface could be an advantage in terms of drug load. To address these questions, the mannitol carrier was blended with two different drugs using various concentrations up to 50%. Self-produced mannitol fines and MgSt in different amounts and in combination were added. Blends were investigated regarding their in vitro aerodynamic performance, dosing behaviour and powder rheology. An addition of up to 30% drug load was possible while retaining good flowability and constant dosing behaviour. Despite the rough and indented carrier surface of the mannitol carrier, the addition of fines or MgSt increased the inhalable fraction, but higher concentrations of fines, as used for lactose blends, were necessary.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2020.1702643
Title:Physical stability of dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:N. ShettyD. CipollaH. ParkQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Introduction: Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are popular for pulmonary drug delivery. Various techniques have been employed to produce inhalation drug particles and improve the delivery efficiency of DPI formulations. Physical stability of these DPI formulations is critical to ensure the delivery of a reproducible dose to the airways over the shelf-life. Areas covered: This review focuses on the impact of solid-state stability on aerosolization performance of DPI drug particles manufactured by powder production approaches and particle-engineering techniques. It also highlights the different analytical tools that can be used to characterize the physical instability originating from production and storage. Expert opinion: A majority of the DPI literature focuses on the effects of physico-chemical properties such as size, morphology, and density on aerosolization. While little has been reported on the physical stability, particularly the stability of engineered drug particles for use in DPIs. Literature data have shown that different particle-engineering methods and storage conditions may cause physical instability of dry powders for inhalation and can significantly change the aerosol performance. A systematic examination of physical instability mechanisms in DPI formulations is necessary during formulation development in order to select the optimum formulation with satisfactory stability. In addition, the use of appropriate characterization tools is critical to detect and understand physical instability during the development of DPI formulations.

doi:10.1186/s40749-015-0011-0
Title:The importance of inhaler devices in the treatment of COPD
Authors:M. BoniniO.S. Usmani
Absract:Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) represents a socio-economic burden and requires regular and ongoing treatment. Inhalation therapy is recommended at all stages of the disease and allows the delivery of active molecules directly to the target site of action, whilst minimising adverse side-effects. Inhalers therefore play a crucial role in the effective management of patients with COPD and their choice is as important as that of the drug. The three most important factors that influence inhaled drug deposition within the airways are the patient's inhalation flow, the aerosol velocity, and the inhaled drug particle size. These ultimately impact on the amount of drug reaching the target site and therefore the functional and clinical responses of the patient. Furthermore, patients' training and education in the use of inhalers have been shown to be directly related to the efficacy of the therapy. However, in daily clinical practice, too little consideration is given to the features of the different inhalers and to the ability of patients to properly handle the device, and precise recommendations are greatly needed to help healthcare professionals to advise and prescribe the most 'appropriate' inhaled drug/device product. The present review aims to provide the latest evidence on the importance of the inhaler device in the management of patients with COPD.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200039001-00003
Title:Systemic exposure to fluticasone propionate administered via metered-dose inhaler containing chlorofluorocarbon or hydrofluoroalkane propellant
Authors:A.E. MackieJ.E. McDowallP. VentrescaA. ByeC. FalcozP.T. Daley-Yates
Absract:Objective: The pharmacokinetic profile of a single dose of inhaled fluticasone propionate (FP) administered via a metered-dose inhaler (MDI), containing either a chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) or hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellant was investigated in healthy volunteers. Methods: Two randomised, double-blind, crossover studies were conducted, each in 12 male volunteers. Both studies compared pharmacokinetic data after a single inhaled dose of FP 1000μg from a MDI containing either CFC (CFC MDI) or HFA (HFA MD1) with a single intravenous dose of FP 250μg. Results: The maximum plasma FP concentrations after inhalation via the 2 types of MDI were almost identical (0.56 and 0.54 μg/L for CFC MDI and HFA MDI, respectively); bioavailability values of inhaled FP from the 2 MDIs were also similar (geometric mean values: 26.4% via the CFC MDI and 28.6% via the HFA MDI). Inhalation of FP via both MDI formulations produced similar reductions in urinary cortisol excretion over 12 and 24 hours postdose. Conclusion: The bioavailability values of FP after inhalation via a CFC MDI and an HFA MDI are similar. The 2 formulations deliver comparable amounts of FP, and systemic exposures to FP from the 2 devices, measured by urinary cortisol excretion, are not significantly different.

doi:10.1081/DDC-100102208
Title:Comments on drugs difficult to compound and the quality of chemicals to be used in compounding
Authors:J.H. Perrin
Absract:These comments are minor modifications to the material submitted by the author to the docket for the FDA Pharmacy Compounding Committee that met on October 15 and 16, 1998.

pui:30013102
Title:'With us everything revolves around powder technology'. Innovative 'pill rollers' in groningen
Authors:H. Hellema
Absract:The group 'Pharmaceutical technology and biopharmacy' in Groningen investigates the optimal formulation of solid dosage forms and inhalation systems with dry powders. For that purpose, the group has the disposal of a compaction simulator. Research has been done into the suitability of excipients like polylactate and a starch derivative, and recently into the possibilities of 'sugar glasses' as excipients. In Groningen, an inhalator has been developed which is much more efficient than the present-day systems. Besides, attention is paid to the microbiological aspects of drug manufacturing.

doi:10.1002/ppul.70037
Title:HFA Inhalers
Authors:J.C. KoninckP. MagroF. KhanjariE. LemariéP. Diot
Absract:The group 'Pharmaceutical technology and biopharmacy' in Groningen investigates the optimal formulation of solid dosage forms and inhalation systems with dry powders. For that purpose, the group has the disposal of a compaction simulator. Research has been done into the suitability of excipients like polylactate and a starch derivative, and recently into the possibilities of 'sugar glasses' as excipients. In Groningen, an inhalator has been developed which is much more efficient than the present-day systems. Besides, attention is paid to the microbiological aspects of drug manufacturing.

doi:10.1023/A:1011981326827
Title:Enhancement of small particle size dry powder aerosol formulations using an ultra low density additive
Authors:P. LucasK. AndersonU.J. PotterJ.N. Staniforth
Absract:The group 'Pharmaceutical technology and biopharmacy' in Groningen investigates the optimal formulation of solid dosage forms and inhalation systems with dry powders. For that purpose, the group has the disposal of a compaction simulator. Research has been done into the suitability of excipients like polylactate and a starch derivative, and recently into the possibilities of 'sugar glasses' as excipients. In Groningen, an inhalator has been developed which is much more efficient than the present-day systems. Besides, attention is paid to the microbiological aspects of drug manufacturing.

doi:10.1208/s12249-020-01757-2
Title:Respiratory Tract: Structure and Attractions for Drug Delivery Using Dry Powder Inhalers
Authors:N.A. ElKasabgyI.M. AdelM.F. Elmeligy
Absract:Respiratory tract is one of the oldest routes for drug delivery. It can be used for local and systemic drug deliveries. Inhalation therapy has several advantages over oral. It delivers the drug efficiently to the lung with minimal systemic exposure, thus avoiding systemic side effects common with oral route. In this review, different types of inhaler devices are illustrated like metered dose inhalers (MDIs), dry powder inhalers (DPIs), nebulizers, and the new soft mist inhalers (SMIs). Since dry powder is more stable than when in liquid form, we will discuss in detail DPIs highlighting different techniques utilized in preparation of dry powders with or without carrier to improve flowability and drug delivery to deep lungs. Types of DPIs are briefly discussed with examples from the market. Several mechanisms for particle deposition are mentioned with factors governing the process. Pharmacokinetic profile of the inhaled particles is detailed starting from the dissolution, followed by the rapid absorption and ending with systemic clearance. New technologies like 3D printing in pulmonary field are also highlighted.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2015.04.005
Title:Excipient-free, spray-dried powders for pulmonary aztreonam delivery
Authors:X.-F. YangY. XuD.-S. QuJ. ZhuH.-Y. Li
Absract:The delivery of antibiotics to the lungs provides a straightforward treatment for lung infections. In this study, the antibiotic of aztreonam (AZT) was spray-dried to prepare drug particles for inhalation. Unlike traditional spray-dried formulations, in which excipients are used to improve powder dispersibility, in this study no excipients were added. Importantly, the excipient-free, AZT spray-dried powders showed excellent flowability, dispersibility and aerosolisation performance. A large amount of drug particles was delivered to the lower stages in the in-vitro aerosolisation test, and the fine particle fraction (particle size < 4.46 mm) was as high as 45% w/w, suggesting an effective delivery of drug particles to the lungs. These excipient-free, AZT spray-dried powders, thus, show an interesting potential to be used as inhaled drugs for the effective treatment of lung infections.

pui:17130730
Title:Subcutaneous epinephrine versus inhaled salbutamol in the treatment of acute asthma in pediatrics
Authors:J. Ferres MataroM.A. Mangues BafalluyR. Farre Riba
Absract:As a bronchodilator, inhaled salbutamol has been shown to be as pharmacologically effective as epinephrine. However the use of the pressurised aerosol is difficult for pediatric patients (mainly under the age of six). The use of spacers (inhalation chambers) could solve this problem. This study was undertaken to compare the clinical effectiveness and toxicity of these two drugs and to try to establish dosage schedules of inhales salbutamol with spacer in the treatment of acute asthma. The study population consisted of 100 children who were admitted to the emergency room at our hospital with acute asthma. One group receive 0.01 mg/kg of epinephrine (A) (maximum 0.3 mg), the other two groups received inhaled salbutamol (S-1 = 4 puffs and S-2 = 7 puffs) in a period of 20 minutes. Clinical effectiveness was measured by the score of Wood-Downes at 0, 30 and 60 minutes; and no statistical differences were observed between the three groups. The clinical effectiveness was similar in the three groups and the side effects (especially the increase of heart rate) was higher in epinephrine group. Inhaled salbutamol is as effective as subcutaneous epinephrine in management of children in acute bronchoconstricting episodes with less side effects.

pui:352582123
Title:Quality by design for analytical methods for use with orally inhaled and nasal drug products
Authors:A. RignallD. ChristopherA. CrumptonK. HawkinsS. LyapustinaH. MemmesheimerA. ParkinsonM.A. SmithB. WykaS. Kaerger
Absract:As a bronchodilator, inhaled salbutamol has been shown to be as pharmacologically effective as epinephrine. However the use of the pressurised aerosol is difficult for pediatric patients (mainly under the age of six). The use of spacers (inhalation chambers) could solve this problem. This study was undertaken to compare the clinical effectiveness and toxicity of these two drugs and to try to establish dosage schedules of inhales salbutamol with spacer in the treatment of acute asthma. The study population consisted of 100 children who were admitted to the emergency room at our hospital with acute asthma. One group receive 0.01 mg/kg of epinephrine (A) (maximum 0.3 mg), the other two groups received inhaled salbutamol (S-1 = 4 puffs and S-2 = 7 puffs) in a period of 20 minutes. Clinical effectiveness was measured by the score of Wood-Downes at 0, 30 and 60 minutes; and no statistical differences were observed between the three groups. The clinical effectiveness was similar in the three groups and the side effects (especially the increase of heart rate) was higher in epinephrine group. Inhaled salbutamol is as effective as subcutaneous epinephrine in management of children in acute bronchoconstricting episodes with less side effects.

pui:9074500
Title:Bronchodilating effect of betaadrenergic substances given orally (tablets), by metered spray (buccal applicaton), or by metered aerosol
Authors:H. LoellgenG. Von NiedingH. Krekeler
Absract:The bronchodilating effect of fenoterol and orciprenaline was assessed in a comparative study using metered aerosol, metered spray and tablets in equivalent doses. Inhalation by metered aerosol was significantly superior to buccal or oral administration although airway resistance by buccal application was also decreased. Following buccal application the effect was approximately the same as that achieved after a tablet but the onset of action was quicker.

pui:46111541
Title:Inhaled iloprost for the treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension
Authors:Y.-W. QinY. Bai
Absract:Objective: To introduce inhaled iloprost for the treatment of primary pulmonary hypertension. Methods: The related literature at home and abroad were reviewed and summarized. Results and Conclusion: Inhaled iloprost can reduce pulmonary vascular resistance and delay the development of primary pulmonary hypertension.

pui:14159142
Title:Comparison of efficacy of fenoterol as dosage aerosol or as powder in asthmatic children
Authors:H.G. WiesemannL. Pfitzner
Absract:The broncholytic agent fenoterol can be applied as an aerosol from a pressurized proportioning can or as a powder. We compared the broncholytic activity of these two preparations in two groups of asthmatic children. The effect has been documented measuring thoracic gas volume (TGV), airway resistance (Raw) and their derivative specific airway conductance (sGaw). After inhalation of 2 mg of fenoterol in each group there was a significant decrease of Raw and TGV and an increase of sGAW. There was no significant difference between the broncholytic activity of the two preparations.

pui:10562561
Title:Precautions followed by personnel involved with the preparation of parenteral antineoplastic medications.
Authors:M.P. Tortorici
Absract:There have been no guidelines published for precautions to be taken by personnel preparing parenteral antineoplastic agents. A questionnaire was prepared and mailed to all of the Comprehensive Cancer Centers in the United States for their opinions on this subject. A response rate of 84% was achieved. The major concerns of the respondents were 1) the local effect from spillage of antineoplastics on the skin and 2) the possible inhalation of solutions vaporized during preparation. On the basis of the responses to the questionnaire, it is recommended that all hospitals evaluate their procedures for preparing antineoplastics and take appropriate precautions to protect their personnel from any potential adverse effects from the medication prepared.

doi:10.2217/nnm-2019-0228
Title:Cardiovascular nanomedicine: The route ahead
Authors:M. IafiscoA. AlognaM. MiragoliD. Catalucci
Absract:There have been no guidelines published for precautions to be taken by personnel preparing parenteral antineoplastic agents. A questionnaire was prepared and mailed to all of the Comprehensive Cancer Centers in the United States for their opinions on this subject. A response rate of 84% was achieved. The major concerns of the respondents were 1) the local effect from spillage of antineoplastics on the skin and 2) the possible inhalation of solutions vaporized during preparation. On the basis of the responses to the questionnaire, it is recommended that all hospitals evaluate their procedures for preparing antineoplastics and take appropriate precautions to protect their personnel from any potential adverse effects from the medication prepared.

doi:10.4155/tde-2019-0068
Title:Could inhaled drug formulations be the future of acute migraine treatment?
Authors:E.M. Abdou
Absract:There have been no guidelines published for precautions to be taken by personnel preparing parenteral antineoplastic agents. A questionnaire was prepared and mailed to all of the Comprehensive Cancer Centers in the United States for their opinions on this subject. A response rate of 84% was achieved. The major concerns of the respondents were 1) the local effect from spillage of antineoplastics on the skin and 2) the possible inhalation of solutions vaporized during preparation. On the basis of the responses to the questionnaire, it is recommended that all hospitals evaluate their procedures for preparing antineoplastics and take appropriate precautions to protect their personnel from any potential adverse effects from the medication prepared.

doi:10.1080/13543784.2018.1439919
Title:Inhaled medication therapy for bronchiectasis: status quo and the next frontier
Authors:C.-L. ChenY. HuangY.-H. GaoR.-C. ChenN.-S. ZhongW.-J. Guan
Absract:There have been no guidelines published for precautions to be taken by personnel preparing parenteral antineoplastic agents. A questionnaire was prepared and mailed to all of the Comprehensive Cancer Centers in the United States for their opinions on this subject. A response rate of 84% was achieved. The major concerns of the respondents were 1) the local effect from spillage of antineoplastics on the skin and 2) the possible inhalation of solutions vaporized during preparation. On the basis of the responses to the questionnaire, it is recommended that all hospitals evaluate their procedures for preparing antineoplastics and take appropriate precautions to protect their personnel from any potential adverse effects from the medication prepared.

doi:10.2174/138161210791959890
Title:Novel and current treatment concepts using pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:M. Hohenegger
Absract:The novel technologies in pulmonary drug delivery propelled the development of new strategies for pharmacological intervention in human diseases. In particular, this review will focus on pulmonary parameters which influence the delivery of inhaled therapeutics and summarize novel applications and recent innovations. The central issues of pulmonary drug application are optimal effectiveness under conditions of greatest safety. They not only depend on the properties of the drug but also feature the application vehicle and drug formulation. The optimization of the whole system (drug, formulation and vehicle) is therefore a necessary prerequisite for reliable inhaling medicines. Depending on the desired locus of drug action, the inhaled medicine has to be adjusted to particle size, concentration and chemical composition to guarantee a local or systemic drug action. Local asthma therapy represents the established concept for inhalation therapy. Due to the disease status, deposition of drugs is therefore often seen in central rather than peripheral airways. Recent developments in ultrafine therapeutic particles should therefore provide enough drug deposition even in the deeper airways. Recent approvals and interesting new therapy concepts will be discussed. Beside a pulmonary drug action there is an accumulating number of applications also for systemic drug action after pulmonary drug delivery. These involve among others inhaled insulin, glucagon-like-peptide 1 or growth hormone. But also novel therapeutic systems for gene therapy and vaccination are currently under investigation. Successful feasibility of these novel concepts will be expected in the near future. © 2010 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S249511
Title:Docetaxel-loaded cholesterol-PEG co-modified poly (N-butyl) cyanoacrylate nanoparticles for antitumor drug pulmonary delivery: Preparation, characterization, and in vivo evaluation
Authors:X. HuF. YangY. LiaoL. LiG. ZhaoL. Zhang
Absract:Background and Aim: Polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) have received much attention as promising carrier systems in lung cancer and brain metastases. Methods: Here, for the first time, we investigated the feasibility of using inhaled cholesterol-PEG co-modified poly (n-butyl) cyanoacrylate NPs (CLS-PEG NPs) of docetaxel (DTX) for sustained pulmonary drug delivery in cancer metastasis. Results: Spray-dried or freeze-dried NPs yielded sustained drug release in vitro. In vitro inhalation evaluation data indicated that the inhalation formulation had better inhalability. Compared with intravenous (IV) administration, pharmacokinetic data suggested that the inhalation formulation prolonged plasma concentration of DTX for greater than 24 h and is more quickly and completely absorbed into the rat lung after intratracheal (IT) administration. Furthermore, freeze-dried powders were found to increase the t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end and area under curve (AUC) by 2.3 and 6.5 fold compared to the free drug after IT administration, and spray-dried powders were found to increase the t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end and AUC by 3.4 and 8.8 fold, respectively. After pulmonary administration of the inhalation formulation, DTX appeared to prolong the pulmonary absorption time. In addition, the inhalation formulation was distributed to the brain in a sustained release manner. Conclusion: These experimental results demonstrated that freeze-and spray-dried powders have the potential for pulmonary sustained release, and they also have the potential to be used as a novel treatment for the delivery of drugs that pass through the air–blood barrier and enter the brain and are efficient carriers for the treatment of brain metastasis.

doi:10.4187/respcare.06689
Title:Bioavailability of beclometasone from two hfa-bdp formulations with a spacer
Authors:A.S.A. SaidS. AburuzH. Chrystyn
Absract:BACKGROUND: The drug delivery characteristics of each inhaler/spacer combination are unique. The spacer size as well as the presence of electrostatic charge greatly influence the inhaler dose emission and in vivo delivery. Using a previously developed urinary pharmacokinetic method, we have measured the relative lung and systemic bioavailability of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) after inhalation from 2 hydrofluroalkane-beclometasone dipropionate (HFA-BDP) formulations when used with a spacer. METHODS: 12 healthy volunteers received 8 randomized doses, separated by 7 d, of inhaled of BDP with either the Clenil pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI; 250 μg) or the breath-actuated Qvar Easi-Breathe inhaler (100 μg), used alone or with a spacer. The urinary amounts of BDP excreted and retained in the spacer were assayed using a liquid chromatographic mass spectrometer. The spacer was assessed after washing with a detergent solution that was either rinsed or not rinsed with water. In addition, the aerodynamic characterization of each inhaler/spacer combination was assessed using the Andersen Cascade Impactor operated at 28 L/min using a 4-L inhalation volume. The amount of BDP deposited in the induction port, spacer, and various Anderson Cascade Impactor stages were determined. RESULTS: The in vivo 30-min urinary excretion and the in vitro fine particle dose results were only slightly affected by adding the spacer to the Clenil pMDI or the Qvar Easi-Breathe inhaler. However, the spacer significantly reduced drug particle impaction in the oropharynx and minimized deposition in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, using spacers with BDP inhalers is associated with a more favorable therapeutic ratio because it has little effect on lung dose, but it significantly reduced throat deposition. An improved lung deposition was achieved with non-rinsed spacers compared to spacers rinsed with water. CONCLUSION: The difference in the BDP particle size between formulations as well as spacer size greatly affected drug deposition in different regions of the respiratory tract.

doi:10.1016/j.omtn.2020.10.023
Title:Transient Transfection of the Respiratory Epithelium with Gamma Interferon for Host-Directed Therapy in Pulmonary Tuberculosis
Authors:R. BhartiA. SrivastavaT. RoyK. VermaD.V.S. ReddyH. ShafiS. VermaS.K. RamanA.K. SinghJ. SinghL. RayA. Misra
Absract:Nebulized gamma interferon (IFN-γ) protein has been studied for clinical safety and efficacy against pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). The protein is expensive, requires a cold chain, and is difficult to deploy in limited-resource, high-incidence settings. We generated a preclinical proof of concept (PoC) for a dry powder inhalation (DPI) containing DNA constructs to transiently transfect the lung and airway epithelium of mice with murine IFN-γ. Bacterial colony-forming units (CFU) in the lungs of mice infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) reduced from about 10@sup_begin6@sup_end/g of tissue to ~10@sup_begin4@sup_end after four doses given once a week. Nodular inflammatory lesions in the lungs reduced significantly in number. Immunohistochemistry of infected lung sections for LC3-1 and LAMP-1 indicated autophagy induction between 18 and 48 h after inhalation. ELISA on bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid showed differences in kinetics of IFN-γ concentrations in the epithelial lining fluid of healthy versus infected mice. Uninfected mice receiving DNA constructs expressing a fluorescent protein were live-imaged. The fluorescence signals from the intracellular protein peaked at about 36 h after inhalation and declined by 48 h. These results establish preclinical PoC of the efficacy of a DPI and dosing regimen as a host-directed and transient gene therapy of experimental pulmonary TB in mice, justifying preclinical development.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.03.053
Title:Formulation of insulin-loaded N-trimethyl chitosan microparticles with improved efficacy for inhalation by supercritical fluid assisted atomization
Authors:Y.-B. ShenZ. DuC. TangY.-X. GuanS.-J. Yao
Absract:Supercritical fluid assisted atomization introduced by a hydrodynamic cavitation mixer (SAA-HCM) was proposed as a green technique to fabricate insulin-loaded dry powders for inhalation administration. N-trimethyl chitosan (TMC), a polymeric mucoadhesive absorption enhancer, was synthesized and successfully micronized from aqueous solution using SAA-HCM. The prepared well-defined spherical TMC microparticles with preserved structure and thermal stability were potential carriers for delivery of proteins. Then, insulin-loaded TMC microparticles with high loading efficiency were coprecipitated from aqueous solutions using SAA-HCM without use of any organic solvents. The polymer/protein ratio revealed to be a factor influencing the particle morphology, and non-coalescing composite microparticles in amorphous state mainly ranging from 1 μm to 5 μm could be obtained in this work. Aerodynamic properties were assessed by next generation impactor (NGI) and the mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) lied inside the inhalable range of 1-5 μm, while fine particle fraction (FPF) reached above 60%. The structural integrity of encapsulated insulin was confirmed by HPLC, circular dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopy. In vivo study demonstrated that TMC could enhance the absorption and bioavailability of the pulmonarily administered insulin formulation for SD rats. These results suggest that TMC microparticles could be efficiently prepared as a promising vehicle for drug delivery, and SAA-HCM is a promising technique to prepare inhalable polymer/protein composite dry powders.

doi:10.1046/j.1365-2125.2002.01632.x
Title:Determination of the relative bioavailability of salbutamol to the lungs and systemic circulation following nebulization
Authors:V.L. SilkstoneS.A. CorlettH. Chrystyn
Absract:Aims: Clinical studies comparing nebulized drug delivery systems could be flawed because of the high doses used. We have compared lung and total systemic delivery of salbutamol from a nebuliser with that from a metered dose inhaler by measuring urinary recovery of drug and its sulphate metabolite. Methods: Twelve healthy volunteers provided urine samples at 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 24 h after the start of dosing. Formulations and doses were 5 × 100 μg oral solution (ORAL), 5 × 100 μg from a metered dose inhaler (MDI), 2.5 mg using a nebuliser (NEB) and NEB with 25 g oral charcoal (NEBC). Each study phase was separated by 7 days and the order of dosing was randomized. Results: Mean (s.d.) 30 min urinary salbutamol excretion after ORAL, MDI, NEB and NEBC was 0.4 (0.7), 12.1 (3.7), 15.0 (3.9) and 18.2 (5.7) μg, respectively (all P<0.001 compared with ORAL). When normalized for the dose available for inhalation from MDI, NEB and NEBC, the mean (s.d.) 30 min urinary excretion of salbutamol was 2.4 (0.7), 2.9 (0.6) and 2.7 (0.6)%, respectively, with a mean ratio (90% confidence interval) between NEB and NEBC, of 95.3 (91.1, 99.5)%. The mean (s.d.) excretion of salbutamol plus its metabolite over 24 h post ORAL, MDI, NEB and NEBC dosing was 297.9 (38.3), 290.3 (41.4), 266.5 (44.6) and 151.7 (40.9) μg, respectively. The mean ratio (90% confidence interval) between MDI and ORAL, and NEB and ORAL were 97.5 (94.1, 101.0) and 90.7 (81.2, 100.2)%, respectively. The NEBC data indicate that 6.07 (1.04)% of the nominal nebulized dose was delivered to the lungs. Conclusions: The 30 min urinary recovery of salbutamol, an index of the relative systemic bioavailability of salbutamol following inhalation, can be used to compare the lung deposition of nebulized systems. Similarly, the urinary 24 h recovery of salbutamol plus its metabolite, an index of the relative systemic bioavailability of salbutamol following inhalation, can be used to compare the delivery of nebulized drug to the systemic circulation.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2011.12.004
Title:Agglomerate behaviour of fluticasone propionate within dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:V.N.P. LeE. RobinsM.P. Flament
Absract:Due to their small size, the respirable drug particles tend to form agglomerates which prevent flowing and aerosolisation. A carrier is used to be mixed with drug in one hand to facilitate the powder flow during manufacturing, in other hand to help the fluidisation upon patient inhalation. Depending on drug concentration, drug agglomerates can be formed in the mixture. The aim of this work was to study the agglomeration behaviour of fluticasone propionate (FP) within interactive mixtures for inhalation. The agglomerate phenomenon of fluticasone propionate after mixing with different fractions of lactose without fine particles of lactose (smaller than 32 μm) was demonstrated by the optical microscopy observation. A technique measuring the FP size in the mixture was developed, based on laser diffraction method. The FP agglomerate sizes were found to be in a linear correlation with the pore size of the carrier powder bed (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.9382). The latter depends on the particle size distribution of carrier. This founding can explain the role of carrier size in de-agglomeration of drug particles in the mixture. Furthermore, it gives more structural information of interactive mixture for inhalation that can be used in the investigation of aerosolisation mechanism of powder. According to the manufacturing history, different batches of FP show different agglomeration intensities which can be detected by Spraytec®, a new laser diffraction method for measuring aerodynamic size. After mixing with a carrier, Lactohale LH200, the most cohesive batch of FP, generates a lower fine particle fraction. It can be explained by the fact that agglomerates of fluticasone propionate with very large size was detected in the mixtures. By using silica-gel beads as ballmilling agent during the mixing process, the FP agglomerate size decreases accordingly to the quantity of mixing aid. The homogeneity and the aerodynamic performance of the mixtures are improved. The mixing aid based on ball-milling effect could be used to ameliorate the quality of inhalation mixture of cohesive drug, such as fluticasone propionate. However, there is a threshold where an optimal amount of mixing aids should be used. Not only the drug des-aggregation reaches its peak but the increase in drug-carrier adhesion due to high energy input should balance the de-agglomeration capacity of mixing process. This approach provides a potential alternative in DPI formulation processing. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:622130439
Title:Új generációs meloxikám-kálium tartalmñ inhalációs készItmények fejlesztése és in vitro-in silico aerodinamikai tulajdonságainak vizsgálata
Authors:C. AnitaF. ÁrpádB. ImreH. BélaS.R. PiroskalA. Rita
Absract:Introduction: The newest researches report about several high potency carrier-free DPI (dry powder inhaler) formulations. In all of these cases, special additives are applied in the particle designing phase to make the particles easy to handle during manufacturing and implement an enhanced aerosolization property for the inhalation. The aerosolization properties are usually carried out using in vitro characterization by Ph. Eur. 6. The new researches complete the development with validated in silico modelling, to obtain realistic aerodynamics and to optimize the formulation. Aims: The present work is focusing on the inhalable meloxicampotassium (MXK) DPI formulation and on the determination of the aerodynamic properties with two methods: first to establish the aerosolizatiori efficacy in vitro, secondly to apply a validated in silico method to specify the aerodynamical behavior based on realistic parameters. Methods: Different types of excipients (PVA, leucine, and ethanol) were used to increase aerosolization efficacy of the spray dried particles. The aerodynamical effectiveness of the prepared particles were tested in vitro with Andersen Cascade Impactor simulating 30 L/min inhalation flow rate. A new in silico Stochastic Lung Model was also applied to quantify the amount of particles deposited in the different regions of the respiratory system. The combination of the two methods offers a more exact characterization of the aerodynamic properties of the dry powder samples Results: The spray-dried samples had a deep lung deposited fraction than 50% (FPF value) and the particle sizes were in the required 1-5 pm (MMAD value) range in the in vitro characterization. The emitted dose in most of the samples were also high (- 90%), indicating a favorably weak adhesive character between the powder and the capsule. While the realistic in silico modelling gives an exact aerodynamic behavior of the samples completing the testing with extra data (ex. bronchial and acinar deposited doses and exhaled doses). Conclusion: In accordance with our aims, the co-spray dried powder containing MXK were found to have good aerosolization behavior, suitable for effective inhalation and deposition. Our study makes good ground for further investigations of the in vitro-in silico effectiveness and of a potential new method of aerodynamical behavior simulation.

doi:10.1007/s11095-016-1926-0
Title:Preparation and Preclinical Evaluation of Inhalable Particles Containing Rapamycin and Anti-Tuberculosis Agents for Induction of Autophagy
Authors:A. GuptaD. SharmaJ. MeenaS. PandyaM. SachanS. KumarK. SinghK. MitraS. SharmaA.K. PandaP. GuptaU.D. GuptaA. Misra
Absract:Purpose: Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) inhibits host defense mechanisms, including autophagy. We investigated particles containing rapamycin (RAP) alone or in combination with isoniazid (INH) and rifabutin (RFB) for: targeting lung macrophages on inhalation; inducing autophagy; and killing macrophage-resident Mtb and/or augmenting anti-tuberculosis (TB) drugs. Methods: PLGA and drugs were spray-dried. Pharmacokinetics, partial biodistribution (LC-MS/MS) and efficacy (colony forming units, qPCR, acid fast staining, histopathology) in mice following dry powder inhalation were evaluated. Results: Aerodynamic diameters of formulations were 0.7–4.7 μm. Inhaled particles reached deep lungs and were phagocytosed by alveolar macrophages, yielding AUC0-48 of 102 compared to 0.1 μg/ml × h obtained with equivalent intravenous dose. RAP particles induced more autophagy in Mtb-infected macrophages than solutions. Inhaled particles containing RAP alone in daily, alternate-day and weekly dosing regimens reduced bacterial burden in lungs and spleens, inducing autophagy and phagosome-lysosome fusion. Inhalation of particles containing RAP with INH and RFB cleared the lungs and spleens of culturable bacteria. Conclusions: Targeting a potent autophagy-inducing agent to airway and lung macrophages alone is feasible, but not sufficient to eliminate Mtb. Combination of macrophage-targeted inhaled RAP with classical anti-TB drugs contributes to restoring tissue architecture and killing Mtb.

doi:10.1016/j.healun.2019.01.1043
Title:Liposomal Cyclosporine A (L-CsA) via Inhalation to Treat Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome: Novel Formulation and Drug-Specific Delivery System Improves Tolerability
Authors:N. HenigJ. TeichmannJ. PaulukatD. KappelerO. DenkG. Boerner
Absract:Purpose: Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is the major obstacle to long-term benefit after lung transplantation. There is no therapy with demonstrated benefit. As BOS is a T-cell mediated process, cyclosporine A given topically to the airways is a good candidate molecule but is highly insoluble. Characteristics of a liposomal formulation (L-CsA) is compared to a propylene glycol formulation (CsA-PG) are presented here. Methods: Retrospective comparison of in vitro data and clinical data from prospective randomized clinical trials. CsA-PG (62.5 mg/mL) dosed 300 mg/5 mL three times weekly was compared to L-CsA (lyophilisate reconstituted with 0.25% saline) in a final concentration of 5 mg/1.25mL or 10 mg/2.5mL per twice daily. CsA-PG was delivered by a Sidestream Disposable nebulizer and use of a Mobilaire compressor; L-CsA was delivered via a PARI investigational eFlow&reg; specifically designed for use with L-CsA. (L-CsA eFlow). Results: Pharmacokinetic models predict a constant drug level in the lung with twice daily inhalation of L-CsA as compared to 3-times weekly inhalations of CsA-PG which resulted in high peak and low trough levels. Serum level of L-CsA was 57.42 ± 34.26 ng/mL; trough level was 4-5 ng/mL. Inhalation time was mean 60 min for CsA-PG 300mg, 6-10 min for L-CsA 5mg and 8-13 min for L-CsA 10mg dose. Tolerability data is assessed from 373 patient-month drug exposure to CsA-PG and 1068 patient-month exposure to L-CsA. Premedication was not used with L-CsA, whereas premedication with lidocaine and albuterol was necessary to improve tolerability with CsA-PG. In addition, CsA-PG necessitated incremental titration from 100 mg to 300 mg per inhalation to achieve the target dose; no titration was needed with L-CsA. Reported symptoms were (L-CsA vs CsA-PG): pharyngeal soreness 1% vs. 43%; cough 22% vs. 36%; dyspnea 7% vs. 25%; wheezing 1% vs. 7%; discontinuation due to symptoms caused by aerosol administration 0% vs. 7%. Adherence to investigational therapy (L-CsA vs CsA-PG) was 80% vs 60%. Conclusion: L-CsA administered via an L-CsA specific PARI investigational eFlow&reg; nebulizer improved tolerability and adherence compared to CsA-PG, another investigational aerosolized cyclosporine. L-CsA uses lower total dose exposure to achieve constant levels of drug in the airway.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200443080-00004
Title:Insulin disposition in the lung following oral inhalation in humans: A meta-analysis of its pharmacokinetics
Authors:M. Sakagami
Absract:Background: Oral inhalation of insulin potentially offers non-invasive treatment and better glycaemic control in diabetes by virtue of its apparently faster absorption into the systemic circulation compared with subcutaneous injection. Nevertheless, the lung kinetics of inhaled insulin in humans have yet to be fully clarified because of the complexity of insulin-glucose (patho)physiology and the difficulty in approximating the inhaled dose. As a result, there remains considerable debate on the mechanisms of absorption and metabolism of insulin in the lung. Objectives: To develop and apply a physiologically realistic insulin-glucose kinetic model to a meta-analysis of insulin-glucose profiles from well-controlled clinical studies of inhaled insulin published in the literature, and thereby, to derive the kinetic descriptors of insulin in the lung following inhalation through curve fitting. Model development: The model assumed first-order absorption (k@sub_begina,L@sub_end) and parallel non-absorptive loss (k@sub_beginmm,L@sub_end), the latter primarily occurring via metabolism and mucociliary clearance in the lung, alongside two systemic compartments. Where necessary, glucose-dependent endogenous pancreatic insulin secretion was also taken into account by using blood glucose data as the second independent variable. Results: Despite the model's simplicity and the use of mean data, 16 insulin-glucose profiles from ten clinical studies were successfully fitted to the model, yielding values for the rate constants k @sub_begina,L@sub_end and k@sub_beginmm,L@sub_end. Whole serum insulin profiles were rate-determined by k@sub_begina,L@sub_end and k@sub_beginmm,L@sub_end combined, representing 'flip-flop' pharmacokinetics. The best estimate for k@sub_begina,L@sub_end was found to be 0.020-0.032 h@sup_begin-1@sup_end, effectively unchanged across doses (0.3-1.8 IU/kg), formulations (powder vs liquid) and subjects (healthy vs diabetic), suggesting passive diffusive absorption of insulin from the lung. In contrast, the values for k@sub_beginmm,L@sub_end were much larger (0.5-1.6 h@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and decreased with increasing inhaled dose. Therefore, it is likely that dose-dependent saturable lung metabolism controls the value of k@sub_beginmm,L@sub_end, alongside mucociliary clearance. As a result, the absolute bioavailability ranged from 1.5% to 4.8%. The modelling analysis also enabled derivation of increased values for both k@sub_begina,L@sub_end and k@sub_beginmm,L@sub_end as a possible cause of faster absorption for deep inspiratory manoeuvres and increased absorption in smokers, and faster and increased absorption for insulin lispro. Conclusions: Although some of these results need to be substantiated experimentally, it appears that this modelling analysis has enabled unification of the literature information associated with the kinetics and mechanisms of insulin disposition in the lung following inhalation in humans.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics10040252
Title:Moisture-resistant co-spray-dried netilmicin with l-leucine as dry powder inhalation for the treatment of respiratory infections
Authors:Y. CuiX. ZhangW. WangZ. HuangZ. ZhaoG. WangS. CaiH. JingY. HuangX. PanC. Wu
Absract:Netilmicin (NTM) is one of the first-line drugs for lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) therapy, but its nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity caused by intravenous injection restrict its clinical application. Dry powder inhalation (DPI) is a popular local drug delivery system that is introduced as a solution. Due to the nature of NTM hygroscopicity that hinders its direct use through DPI, in this study, L-leucine (LL) was added into NTM dry powder to reduce its moisture absorption rate and improve its aerosolization performance. NTM DPIs were prepared using spray-drying with different LL proportions. The particle size, density, morphology, crystallinity, water content, hygroscopicity, antibacterial activity, in vitro aerosolization performance, and stability of each formulation were characterized. NTM DPIs were suitable for inhalation and amorphous with a corrugated surface. The analysis indicated that the water content and hygroscopicity were decreased with the addition of LL, whilst the antibacterial activity of NTM was maintained. The optimal formulation ND@sub_begin2@sub_end (NTM:LL = 30:1) showed high fine particle fraction values (85.14 ± 8.97%), which was 2.78-fold those of ND@sub_begin0@sub_end (100% NTM). It was stable after storage at 40 ± 2 C, 75 ± 5% relative humidity (RH). The additional LL in NTM DPI successfully reduced the hygroscopicity and improved the aerosolization performance. NTM DPIs were proved to be a feasible and desirable approach for the treatment of LRTI.

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2018.PA981
Title:Inhaled formulation of angiotensin-(1-7) produces lung protective effects in a model of chronic asthma
Authors:G. MagalhãesM. Da Gloria Rodrigues-MachadoJ. GregórioK. GonzagaP. CassiniL. BarcelosR. SantosM.J. Campagnole-Santos
Absract:Background: Asthma is characterized by inflammation, pulmonary remodeling and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. We have previously shown that treatment with angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] prevents chronic allergic lung inflammation and promotes resolution of eosinophilic inflammation. Aims: Here, we evaluated the effect of treatment with the inclusion compound of Ang-(1-7) in hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin (HPβ-CD) given by inhalation on pulmonary remodeling in a murine model of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced chronic allergic lung inflammation. Methods: Mice were assigned to three groups: Control, OVA and OVA+Ang-(1-7). Mice of OVA groups were sensitized to ovalbumin (OVA; 20?μg, i.p.; 4 times, 14 days apart) and challenged 3 times per week (OVA; 1% by nebulization, days 21-46). After 35 days, mice were treated with Ang-(1-7) by inhalation (days 35-48). Mice were anesthetized 72?h after the last challenge and blood, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and lungs were collected. Histology and morphometric analysis were performed in the left lung. Metalloproteinases (MMPs) MMP-9, MMP-12, alpha smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) were measured in the lung by Western blotting. Eosinophilic peroxidase activity was evaluated in the lung and the number of inflammatory cells in BAL. Results: Ang-(1-7) reduced eosinophils in the lung and in the BAL. Treatment of OVA sensitized and challenged mice with Ang-(1-7) by inhalation reversed pulmonary remodeling by reducing collagen, MMP-9, MMP-12 and α-SMA in the lung. Conclusion: Inflammatory response and deposition of fibrotic factors induced by OVA-challenge were attenuated with inhaled formulation of Ang-(1-7).

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.06.041
Title:Dimethyl silicone dry nanoemulsion inhalations: Formulation study and anti-acute lung injury effect
Authors:L. ZhuM. LiJ. DongY. Jin
Absract:Abstract Acute lung injury (ALI) is a severe disease, leading to death if not treated quickly. An emergency medicine is necessary for ALI therapy. Dimethyl silicone (DMS) is an effective agent to defoam the bubbles in the lung induced by ALI. However, DMS aerosols, a marketed formulation of DMS, affect environments and will be limited in the future. Here we firstly report a dry nanoemulsion inhalation for pulmonary delivery. Novel DMS dry nanoemulsion inhalations (DSNIs) were developed in this study. The optimal formulation of stable and homogenous DMS nanoemulsions (DSNs) was composed of Cremophor RH40/PEG 400/DMS (4:4:2, w/w/w) and water. The DSNs showed the tiny size of 19.8 nm, the zeta potential of -9.66 mV, and the low polydispersity index (PDI) of 0.37. The type of DSNs was identified as oil-in-water. The DSNs were added with mannitol followed by freeze-drying to obtain the DSNIs that were loose white powders, showed good fluidity, and were capable of rapid reconstitution to DSNs. The DSNs could adhere on the surfaces of lyophilized mannitol crystals. The aerodynamic diameter of DSNIs was 4.82 μm, suitable for pulmonary inhalation. The in vitro defoaming rate of DSNIs was 1.25 ml/s, much faster than those of the blank DSNIs, DMS, and DMS aerosols. The DSNIs showed significantly higher anti-ALI effect on the ALI rat models than the blank DSNIs and the DMS aerosols according to lung appearances, histological sections, and lung wet weight/dry weight ratios. The DSNIs are effective anti-ALI nanomedicines. The novel DMS formulation is a promising replacement of DMS aerosols.

doi:10.1023/A:1018910200420
Title:Formulation and physical characterization of large porous particles for inhalation
Authors:R. VanbeverJ.D. MintzesJ. WangJ. NiceD. ChenR. BatyckyR. LangerD.A. Edwards
Absract:Purpose. Relatively large (>5 μm) and porous (mass density < 0.4 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end) particles present advantages for the delivery of drugs to the lungs, e.g., excellent aerosolization properties. The aim of this study was, first, to formulate such particles with excipients that are either FDA-approved for inhalation or endogenous to the lungs; and second, to compare the aerodynamic size and performance of the particles with theoretical estimates based on bulk powder measurements. Methods. Dry powders were made of water-soluble excipients (e.g., lactose, albumin) combined with water-insoluble material (e.g., lung surfactant), using a standard single-step spray-drying process. Aerosolization properties were assessed with a Spinhaler(TM) device in vitro in both an Andersen cascade impactor and an Aerosizer(TM). Results. By properly choosing excipient concentration and varying the spray drying parameters, a high degree of control was achieved over the physical properties of the dry powders. Mean geometric diameters ranged between 3 and 15 μm, and tap densities between 0.04 and 0.6 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end. Theoretical estimates of mass mean aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) were rationalized and calculated in terms of geometric particle diameters and bulk tap densities. Experimental values of MMAD obtained from the Aerosizer(TM) most closely approximated the theoretical estimates, as compared to those obtained from the Andersen cascade impactor. Particles possessing high porosity and large size, with theoretical estimates of MMAD between 1-3 μm, exhibited emitted doses as high as 96% and respirable fractions ranging up to 49% or 92%, depending on measurement technique. Conclusions. Dry powders engineered as large and light particles, and prepared with combinations of GRAS (generally recognized as safe) excipients, may be broadly applicable to inhalation therapy.

pui:622967789
Title:In vitro dose linearity of ultralow dose abediterol delivered by two devices for a pharmacokinetic (pk)/ pharmacodynamic (pd) study in asthmatic patients
Authors:K. SteltnerM. ArltS. HoeA. DotyC. LampaS. SidesT. BentleyD. Lechuga-BallesterosC. Astbury
Absract:Rationale: Abediterol (AZD0548) is a novel, potent long-acting β2-agonist, in development for once-daily maintenance treatment of asthma, in combination with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or other anti-inflammatory agent. To achieve effective treatment and reliable clinical data, an accurate and consistent delivery of the medication across the clinical dose range is critical. Dose linearity of in vitro measures such as delivered dose (DD) and fine particle dose (FPD) provide confidence that the active ingredient is being delivered appropriately. Here we report the in vitro dose linearity of abediterol in an ultralow dose delivered via two inhalation devices to support a Phase IIa pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study in asthmatic patients. Methods: Two abediterol aerosols were prepared using two innovative formulation technologies delivered via different inhalation devices: a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) using the innovative Cosuspension delivery technology and the Genuair®/Pressair®b dry powder inhaler (DPI) using advanced coarse lactose blends. The formulations were tested in a small, single-dose study in asthmatic patients (NCT02777827) where they demonstrated very similar PK properties and bronchodilator response. Focus was on obtaining equivalent aerosol delivery of ultralow abediterol doses: 0.05, 0.156 and 2.5 μg in the pMDI, each delivered in two actuations; and 0.156 and 2.5 μg in the DPI, each delivered in a single inhalation maneuver. The pMDI formulations are a co-suspension of spray-dried phospholipid porous particle and micronized abediterol in HFA- 134A propellant. The DPI formulations in the Genuair®/Pressair® device are blends of lactose and micronized abediterol. For the aerodynamic assessment of DD and FPD, cascade impaction was used followed by HPLC analysis. Results: Figure 1. Equivalent and linear delivery of abediterol is achieved with either pMDI or DPI as shown by the linearity between nominal dose and DD or FPD < 5 μm of abediterol delivered via pMDI or DPI. DD and FPD <5μm results of the doses ranging from 0.05 μg to 2.5 μg in pMDI and 0.156 μg to 2.5 μg in DPI, respectively, were linear. Correlation coefficients of the linear regression for the DD and FPD for both inhalation platforms combined were r=0.9998 and r=0.9970, respectively (Figure 1). Conclusions: Two different inhalation platforms - the Co-suspension Delivery Technology pMDI and the Genuair®/Pressair® DPI- demonstrate excellent linear behavior for the DD and FPD over a range of low to ultralow doses.

doi:10.5812/JJNPP.106961
Title:The protective effects of nebulized nano-curcumin against bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats
Authors:A.A. HemmatiN.S. KarampourS. DahanzadehB.S. MakhmalzadehA. RezaieM. Ghafourian
Absract:Background: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive fatal disease affecting the lung, and currently there is no efficient therapy for this condition. Curcumin, as a natural anti-inflammatory and antioxidant agent, could repress the pulmonary fibrosis (PF) caused by Bleomycin (BLM). Objectives: The aim of the research was to evaluate the protective activity of a nano-formulation of curcumin administered by inhalation on BLM-induced PF in rats. Methods: Eighty rats were randomly divided into eight experimental groups. Group one (control) that received saline intratracheally (IT) and subjected to vehicle inhalation. Group two to eight each received a single dose of BLM (5 IU/kg, IT) along with vehicle inhalation, oral prednisolone, oral curcumin, curcumin inhalation, and nano-curcumin inhalation with the doses of 50, 100, and 200 μg/kg, respectively. In the control and other groups, BLM was injected intratracheally on the first day of the experiment. In the treatment groups, curcumin suspension was prepared in distilled water and applied through nebulization for 21 consecutive days after BLM intratracheal administration. Then the rats were euthanized, and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, TGF-β, PDGF), hydroxyproline, and IL-10 (as a protective cytokine) were measured. Also, lung histopathological features were examined. Results: The synthesized nano-formulation reduced the overall hydroxyproline content of lungs in BLM-treated rats (P < 0.002). In addition, TNF-α, TGF-β, and PDGF levels significantly increased in the lungs of BLM-instilled rats (P < 0.001). However, the nanoformulation of curcumin (200 μg/kg) significantly decreased the levels of these inflammatory cytokines (P < 0.001) and increased IL-10 level (P = 0.0144) compared with the control group. Conclusions: The nebulization of nano-curcumin is suggested as a novel approach for the treatment of PF induced by BLM in rats. Our findings revealed that the inhalation (as a safe local drug delivery system approach) of the nano-curcumin at a dose of 200 μg/kg (formulated by cyclodextrin) could effectively protect the lung against PF.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2018.10.008
Title:Passive inhalation of dry powder influenza vaccine formulations completely protects chickens against H5N1 lethal viral challenge
Authors:J. TomarC. BielC.A.M. de HaanP.J.M. RottierN. PetrovskyH.W. FrijlinkA. HuckriedeW.L.J. HinrichsB. Peeters
Absract:Bird to human transmission of high pathogenicity avian influenza virus (HPAIV) poses a significant risk of triggering a flu pandemic in the human population. Therefore, vaccination of susceptible poultry during an HPAIV outbreak might be the best remedy to prevent such transmissions. To this end, suitable formulations and an effective mass vaccination method that can be translated to field settings needs to be developed. Our previous study in chickens has shown that inhalation of a non-adjuvanted dry powder influenza vaccine formulation during normal breathing results in partial protection against lethal influenza challenge. The aim of the present study was to improve the effectiveness of pulmonary vaccination by increasing the vaccine dose deposited in the lungs and by the use of suitable adjuvants. Two adjuvants, namely, Bacterium-like Particles (BLP) and Advax, were spray freeze dried with influenza vaccine into dry powder formulations. Delivery of dry formulations directly at the syrinx revealed that BLP and Advax had the potential to boost either systemic or mucosal immune responses or both. Upon passive inhalation of dry influenza vaccine formulations in an optimized set-up, BLP and Advax/BLP adjuvanted formulations induced significantly higher systemic immune responses than the non-adjuvanted formulation. Remarkably, all vaccinated animals not only survived a lethal influenza challenge, but also did not show any shedding of challenge virus except for two out of six animals in the Advax group. Overall, our results indicate that passive inhalation is feasible, effective and suitable for mass vaccination of chickens if it can be adapted to field settings.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2004.08.004
Title:Formulation development of inhalation powders for FK888 using the E-haler® to improve the inhalation performance at a high dose, and its absorption in healthy volunteers
Authors:T. NakateH. YoshidaA. OhikeY. TokunagaR. IbukiY. Kawashima
Absract:FK888 is a candidate selective NK1 receptor antagonist, and it exhibits poor absorption from the gastrointestinal tract in healthy volunteers. In a previous study, the optimized dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation with carrier lactose using the Spinhaler® was developed, although the maximum dose per capsule was only 5 mg because the fine particle fraction (FPF) was reduced at doses over 5 mg. The objective of this study was to develop an optimized DPI formulation for higher doses, such as 40 mg, with proportional systemic absorption. The Spinhaler® and E-haler® were used as the inhalation devices, and the in vitro deposition was evaluated using a multistage cascade impactor at different flow rates (28.3 and 60 l/min). When hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) capsules were used as the container, and spherical soft agglomerates of fine FK888 particles (soft pellets) and the E-haler® were used, the fraction of particles emitted from the inhalation system (Em) was significantly improved, to over 80% of the nominal dose, and no significant difference was found between the airflow rates (84.3±2.3% for 28.3 l/min, 88.1±3.6% for 60 l/min). It was also found that the E-haler® was an extremely suitable device for obtaining the higher respirable particle percentage of emitted particles (RP) in the 40 mg formulation with the soft pellets contained in HPMC capsules (35.0±1.8% for 28.3 l/min and 42.5±3.5% for 60 l/min), compared with the Spinhaler® (13.8±3.0% for 28.3 l/min and 28.9±1.0% for 60 l/min). Using the formulations with the E-haler®, proportional systemic absorption was achieved up to 40 mg FK888 in healthy volunteers (62.91±27.58, 103.70±40.19 and 254.79±85.01 ng h/ml as AUCs for 10, 20 and 40 mg FK888, respectively; R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.9641). It is also expected that the E-haler® will act as an efficient device when a higher dose, such as 40 mg, is required in clinical situations. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/ppul.22495
Title:The effect of cysteamine formulated for dry powder inhalation on cystic fibrosis sputum rheology
Authors:D.A. O'NeilK. GriffithsS. SteeleG. WoodD.J. Fraser-Pitt
Absract:Introduction: Cysteamine has potent mucolytic as well as other (antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory) bioactive properties which make this compound a promising candidate therapeutic for cystic fibrosis. We have previously demonstrated that cysteamine (a simple aminothiol) targets cysteine residues of the von-Willebrand regions in gel-forming mucins in a distinct way to existing thiol mucolytics resulting in rapid mucolysis. Early rheological analysis suggested that cysteamine had the most striking impact upon the peak yield stress of CF sputum. This force equates to that required to cough or expectorate sputum. We have now formulated cysteamine for dry powder inhalation (DPI) delivery and demonstrate here the rheological impact of these DPI formulations and solutions of unformulated cysteamine on sputum samples from cystic fibrosis patients including those already on maintenance mucolytic regimens. As well as re-investigating peak yield stress we further explored phase angle, the elastic, loss and complex modulus using oscillation techniques. We also compared the impact of cysteamine on various parameters of mucolysis with that of N-acetylcysteine and DNase I. Methods: Ex vivo rheological analysis of CF sputum was performed on the Kinexus Ultra (Malvern Panalytical) instrument. Sputum was kindly provided by patients attending the Aberdeen Royal Infirmary Cystic Fibrosis unit and included patients on or not on background mucolytic therapy with DNase I. DPI formulations of cysteamine consisted of particles of 2-5 μm size comprising 5, 10, 15 and 20% cysteamine with mannitol/leucine carrier/excipient, and mannitol/leucine controls. Solutions of unformulated cysteamine API were also tested. Results: As seen previously, cysteamine reduces yield stress and shear viscosity of sputum. We found DNase I was inferior to cysteamine in terms of reliable activity on yield stress. Cysteamine had greatest impact on raising G' and phase angle when using oscillation rheology techniques to examine how sputum behaves under flow conditions, indicating sputum was behaving more like a liquid than a visoelastic gel when compared to controls. Cysteamine DPI formulations were also highly mucolytic. Discussion: Cysteamine can be formulated for dry powder inhalation and all formulations, with different loading of cysteamine, had potent and rapid mucolytic activity against sputum in ex vivo experiments by decreasing peak yield stress and viscosity of sputum.

doi:10.3109/10717544.2013.863526
Title:Development and evaluation of a dry powder formulation of liposome-encapsulated oseltamivir phosphate for inhalation
Authors:Y. TangH. ZhangX. LuL. JiangX. XiJ. LiuJ. Zhu
Absract:This study aims to develop oseltamivir phosphate (OP) liposomes as inhalation powders by spray-drying based on the single factor investigation, which was mainly composed of lactose, l-leucine and mannitol. It was found that the ratio of OP and liposomes (1:10), inlet temperature (110 °C) and airflow rate (2.3 mL/min) showed optimized physical properties of OP liposomes. Deposition was evaluated after the aerosolization of powders at 600 L/h via the Aerolizer® into a twin-stage impinger. The concentrations of OP and oseltamivir carboxylate (OSCA) in rats plasma using LC-MS have been determined and performed via pharmacokinetic software DAS 2.0 package. The liposomal OP dry powders displayed an average particle size around 3.5 μm with fine particle fraction (FPF = 35.40%). In vitro evaluation demonstrated a sustained release pattern accounting for 20% drug release compared to that of OP solution up to 90% drug release in 2 h. And the cumulative release percentage was up to 50% in 20 h. Atrioventricular fitting results indicated that all preparations were best fitted with a two-compartment model. There was a significant difference in MRT, C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and T@sub_beginmax@sub_end (p < 0.01) between the two groups of liposomal OP dry powders and OP solution with t-test, which indicated that the drug released slowly from liposomal OP dry powders in the lung. To sum up, dry powders formulation of liposome-encapsulated OP for inhalation was suitable for pulmonary administration, which offering the opportunity to reduce dosing frequency.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.08.021
Title:Engineering large porous microparticles with tailored porosity and sustained drug release behavior for inhalation
Authors:X. ZhangL. QinJ. SuY. SunL. ZhangJ. LiM. Beck-BroichsitterU. MuensterL. ChenS. Mao
Absract:Sustained drug delivery is considered as an effective strategy to improve the treatment of local lung diseases. In this context, inhalation administration of large porous microparticles (LPPs) represents promising prospects. However, one major challenge with said delivery technology is to control the drug release pattern (especially to decrease the burst release) while maintaining a low mass density/high porosity, which is of high significance for the aerodynamic behavior of LPP systems. Here, we show how to engineer drug-loaded, biodegradable LPPs with varying microstructure by means of a premix membrane emulsification-solvent evaporation (PME-SE) method using poly(vinyl pyrrolidone) (PVP) as the pore former. The influence of PVP concentration on the physicochemical properties, in-vitro drug release behavior and in-vitro aerodynamic performance of the drug-loaded microparticles was tested. We demonstrated that the PME-SE technique led to LPPs with favorable pore distribution characteristics (i.e., low external but high internal porosity) as a function of the PVP concentration. In general, more PVP conditioned a larger discrepancy of the internal vs. external porosity. When the external porosity of the LPP formulation (15% of PVP during the manufacturing process) was less than 3%, the burst release of the embedded drug was significantly reduced compared to LPPs prepared by a “conventional” emulsification solvent evaporation method. All the formulations prepared by the PME-SE method had aerodynamic properties suitable for inhalation. This is the first report indicating that the microstructure of LPPs can be tailored using the PME-SE technology with PVP as a suitable pore former. Doing so, we designed LPP formulations having full control over the drug release kinetics and aerodynamic behavior.

pui:622970468
Title:Inhaled liposomal treprostinil shows sustained pharmacokinetic profile, lower irritation, and potentials of reducing dosing frequency
Authors:P. KanK. ChenC. HsuY. Lin
Absract:RATIONALE: Treprostinil is a prostacyclin (PGI2) analog that reduces pulmonary arterial pressure through direct vasodilation of pulmonary and systemic arterial vascular beds. Pulmonary delivery of treprostinil alleviates the adverse effects by reducing the drug exposure in systemic circulation. However, irritation on respiratory tract during oral inhalation has been reported and limited the patient adherence for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Furthermore, the short half-life increases dosing frequency and inconvenience. Liposome is made of biocompatible phospholipids, and has been proved in clinical trials as an antiinfective drug depot for lung delivery. A proprietary liposome technology is thus applied for control release of treprostinil. A liposomal treprostinil formulation (L606) was developed and delivered by nebulizer through oral inhalation. METHODS: A series of liposomal treprostinil formulations were prepared and characterized in terms of encapsulation efficiency and in-vitro release. An extended release formulation was selected for preclinical pharmacokinetic (PK) and repeat dose toxicity studies through pulmonary delivery. In the PK study, blood sample over 12 hours post-dosing was analyzed by LC-MS. Clinical symptom during inhalation was observed. For a comparison in the studies, the treprostinil solution group was included as the positive control. RESULTS&DISCUSSIONS: Liposome formulation is stable during and after nebulization. Drug encapsulation and mean liposome particle size are unchanged (<5%). High encapsulation (>90%) of treprostinil in liposome may reduce the immediate irritation of respiratory tract upon direct contact with drug-containing aerosols. Clinical incidence during inhalation is decreased in repeat dose toxicity study. The formulated liposomes deposited in lungs as the drug depots which release treprostinil slowly for more than 8 hours without burst release. Peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of L606 at the eightfold dose is comparable to that of the positive control. CONCLUSION: L606 liposomal treprostinil showed the improved safety profile, extended pharmacokinetic pattern, and the potentials of reducing dosing frequency. The new liposome formulation is intended to benefit the quality of life and patient compliance for inhaled treprostinil treatment of PAH.

doi:10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.v12.i2-3.20
Title:Delivery of biotherapeutics by inhalation aerosol
Authors:R.W. Niven
Absract:The role of inhalation therapy is adapting to changes brought on by advances in several related disciplines. These range from device technology to the molecular and cell biology of the lungs. Acceptable bioavailability and efficacy have been achieved via the oral route for most traditional pharmaceuticals. Unfortunately, injection is the normal mode of delivery with biotherapeutic agents and alternative delivery approaches are needed. Many preclinical and clinical studies with inhaled proteins, peptides, and DNA have been completed and demonstrate that efficacy can be achieved within the lungs and systemically. Despite the promising results, the development of inhaled biotherapeutics is beset with unique problems that require an integrated and rational approach to development. Aqueous protein formulations are often not stable to aerosolization, while stability of powder formulations can be difficult to evaluate in the solid state. Inhaler efficiency and reproducibility are unacceptable with existing devices and, although improvements in technology have brightened the outlook, new devices are not yet available and remain untried with most biotherapeutics. Once delivered to the lungs, these molecules are also subjected to a variety of efficient clearance mechanisms that can significantly reduce the probability of them being effective. Despite these problems, the number of potential drugs being tested via inhalation continues to increase, suggesting some promise of future success. This review discusses the above issues and highlights a variety of biotherapeutics that have been administered as inhalation aerosols.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2010.12.020
Title:Effects of mild processing pressures on the performance of dry powder inhaler formulations for inhalation therapy (1): Budesonide and lactose
Authors:S.R. MarekM.J. DonovanH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:Batch-to-batch variability, whereby distinct batches of dry powder inhaler formulations, though manufactured with identical components and specifications, may exhibit significant variations in aerosol performance, is a major obstacle to consistent and reproducible drug delivery for inhalation therapy. This variability may arise from processing or manufacturing effects that have yet to be investigated. This study focused on the potential effects of mild compression forces experienced during powder manufacture and transport (such as during the filling of, or storage in, a hopper) on the flowability and aerosol performance of a lactose-based dry powder inhaler formulation. Different grades of inhalation lactose were subjected to typical compression forces by either placing a weight of known mass on the sample or by using a Texture Analyzer to apply a constant force while measuring the distance of compaction. Powder flowability was evaluated with a rotating drum apparatus by imaging the avalanching of the powder over time. The average avalanche angle and avalanche time were used to determine the flowability of each sample, both before and after compression treatment. Aerosol performance of treated and untreated lactose/budesonide blends (2% (w/w)) was assessed in dispersion studies using a next generation impactor. At compression forces in excess of 5 kPa, the flowability of milled lactose was decreased relative to the untreated sample. Compression of lactose prior to blending caused a decrease in in vitro aerosol dispersion performance. However, dispersion performance was unchanged when compression occurred subsequent to drug blending. In contrast, inhalation grade sieved lactose, differing from the milled grade with a lower concentration of lactose fines (<10 μm) and larger overall particle sizes, exhibited no statistical differences in either flowability or dispersion performance across all experimental treatments. Thus, the compression of the lactose fines onto the surfaces of the larger lactose particles due to mild processing pressures is hypothesized to be the cause of these observed performance variations. It was shown that simulations of storage and transport in an industrial scale hopper can induce significant variations in formulation performance, and it is speculated that this could be a source of batch-to-batch variations. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:355218793
Title:Development & characterization of inhaled formulations for systemic drug delivery
Authors:M.W. SamahaH.A. El-MaradnyD.M. RagabF.M. El-Khawas
Absract:The drying of powder aerosols has traditionally followed the spray-drying method. Spray-dried powders were prepared of bovine serum albumin (BSA) with GRAS (generally recognized as safe) excipients for inhalation viz Tween 20, sodium chloride, and beta-cyclodextrin. The spray dried formulatiions were then analyzed for aerodynamic behavior, surface morphology, and physical state. The Aerolizer® (Novartis Pharmaceuticals) and Handihaler® (Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma) were used as the inhalation devices, and the in vitro deposition was calculated using a twin-stage impinger at two different flow rates (30 and 60 L/min). Primary powders with different polydispersity, but comparable physical and mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), were obtained. Particle sizing in the impinger and by laser diffraction indicated that aerosols exited and Aerolizer or Handihaler inhalation device as particle aggregates rather than isolated particles. An Agrgregation index was computed for the different formulations studied. The aggregation index values obtained for spray-dried powders of BSA with the different excipients used in this study indicated a variation in aggregates sizes as a result of changing the type and concentration of excipients as well as the operating conditions, ie, inhaler device and air flow. The effects of the inhaler device and air flow on the aerosolization performance were investigated. The class and the concentration of excipients were optimized by considering two inhalation indices, the emitted dose (ED) and respirable fraction (RF). Among all the combinations tested, the BSA/0.9% w/v sodium chloride formulation was particularly optimum and exhibited an ED value of 74% of the nominal dose (emitted from the Handihaler device using 60 L/min air flow) and an RF value as high as 53.29%. Whereas, 0.5% w/v beta-cyclodextrin formulation with BSA showed an ED of 75.46% of the nominal dose and an RF value of 46.32%. According to the aggregation index results obtained, one can conclude that the differences in RFs rather resulted from differenced in powder cohesiveness with the type of excipients aerosolized under the same operating conditions.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2019.10.012
Title:Targeted PEG-poly(glutamic acid) complexes for inhalation protein delivery to the lung
Authors:A. Nieto-OrellanaH. LiR. RosiereN. WauthozH. WilliamsC.J. MonteiroC. BosquillonN. ChilderhouseG. KeeganD. CoghlanG. MantovaniS. Stolnik
Absract:Pulmonary delivery is increasingly seen as an attractive, non-invasive route for the delivery of forthcoming protein therapeutics. In this context, here we describe protein complexes with a new ‘complexing excipient’ - vitamin B@sub_begin12@sub_end-targeted poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(glutamic acid) copolymers. These form complexes in sub-200 nm size with a model protein, suitable for cellular targeting and intracellular delivery. Initially we confirmed expression of vitamin B@sub_begin12@sub_end-internalization receptor (CD320) by Calu-3 cells of the in vitro lung epithelial model used, and demonstrated enhanced B@sub_begin12@sub_end receptor-mediated cellular internalization of B@sub_begin12@sub_end-targeted complexes, relative to non-targeted counterparts or protein alone. To develop an inhalation formulation, the protein complexes were spray dried adopting a standard protocol into powders with aerodynamic diameter within the suitable range for lower airway deposition. The cellular internalization of targeted complexes from dry powders applied directly to Calu-3 model was found to be 2–3 fold higher compared to non-targeted complexes. The copolymer complexes show no complement activation, and in vivo lung tolerance studies demonstrated that repeated administration of formulated dry powders over a 3 week period in healthy BALB/c mice induced no significant toxicity or indications of lung inflammation, as assessed by cell population count and quantification of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α pro-inflammatory markers. Importantly, the in vivo data appear to suggest that B@sub_begin12@sub_end-targeted polymer complexes administered as dry powder enhance lung retention of their protein payload, relative to protein alone and non-targeted counterparts. Taken together, our data illustrate the potential developability of novel B@sub_begin12@sub_end-targeted poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(glutamic acid) copolymers as excipients suitable to be formulated into a dry powder product for the inhalation delivery of proteins, with no significant lung toxicity, and with enhanced protein retention at their in vivo target tissue.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12111002
Title:Development of remdesivir as a dry powder for inhalation by thin film freezing
Authors:S. SahakijpijarnC. MoonJ.J. KolengD.J. ChristensenR.O. Williams
Absract:Remdesivir exhibits in vitro activity against SARS‐CoV‐2 and was granted approval for emergency use. To maximize delivery to the lungs, we formulated remdesivir as a dry powder for inhalation using thin film freezing (TFF). TFF produces brittle matrix nanostructured aggregates that are sheared into respirable low‐density microparticles upon aerosolization from a passive dry powder inhaler. In vitro aerodynamic testing demonstrated that drug loading and excipient type affected the aerosol performance of remdesivir. Remdesivir combined with optimal excipients exhibited desirable aerosol performance (up to 93.0% FPF< 5 μm; 0.82 μm mass median aerodynamic diameter). Remdesivir was amorphous after the TFF process, which benefitted drug dissolution in simulated lung fluid. TFF remdesivir formulations are stable after one month of storage at 25 °C/60% relative humidity. An in vivo pharmacokinetic evaluation showed that TFF remdesivir–leucine was poorly absorbed into systemic circulation while TFF remdesivir‐Captisol® demonstrated increased systemic uptake compared to leucine. Remdesivir was hydrolyzed to the nucleoside analog GS‐ 441524 in the lung, and levels of GS‐441524 were greater in the lung with leucine formulation compared to Captisol®. In conclusion, TFF technology produces high‐potency remdesivir dry powder formulations for inhalation that are suitable to treat patients with COVID‐19 on an outpatient basis and earlier in the disease course where effective antiviral therapy can reduce related morbidity and mortality.

doi:10.1016/j.jcf.2009.04.005
Title:Inhaled medication and inhalation devices for lung disease in patients with cystic fibrosis: A European consensus
Authors:H. HeijermanE. WestermanS. ConwayD. Touw
Absract:In cystic fibrosis inhalation of drugs for the treatment of CF related lung disease has been proven to be highly effective. Consequently, an increasing number of drugs and devices have been developed for CF lung disease or are currently under development. In this European consensus document we review the current status of inhaled medication in CF, including the mechanisms of action of the various drugs, their modes of administration and indications, their effects on lung function, exacerbation rates, survival and quality of life, as well as side effects. Specifically we address antibiotics, mucolytics/mucous mobilizers, anti-inflammatory drugs, bronchodilators and combinations of solutions. Additionally, we review the current knowledge on devices for inhalation therapy with regard to optimal particle sizes and characteristics of wet nebulisers, dry powder and metered dose inhalers. Finally, we address the subject of testing new devices before market introduction. © 2009 European Cystic Fibrosis Society.

doi:10.1007/s12668-020-00797-z
Title:Novel Silibinin Loaded Chitosan-Coated PLGA/PCL Nanoparticles Based Inhalation Formulations with Improved Cytotoxicity and Bioavailability for Lung Cancer
Authors:M. RavalP. PatelV. AiraoV. BhattN. Sheth
Absract:Silibinin is widely used as an anticancer agent. There are important matters of concern regarding the drug pharmacokinetics related to the conventional formulation due to their low solubility and bioavailability. The aim of the present investigation was to develop, characterize, and evaluate chitosan-coated PLGA/PCL nanoparticles containing Silibinin (SB) intended for pulmonary delivery for treating lung cancer. Nanoparticles were prepared by double emulsion solvent evaporation method followed by lyophilized to obtain inhalation powder form. The prepared nanoparticles (NPs) were evaluated for their physicochemical characteristic along with DSC, FTIR, and SEM. The anticancer activity of SB-loaded NPs was assessed in the human A549 lung cancer cell line utilizing MTT assay and anti-cancer potential assessed by clonogenic assay. The pharmacokinetics and tissue distribution studies of SB-loaded NPs were assessed in comparison with the SB solution. The prepared NPs exhibited particle sizes in the range of 187–284 nm. Zeta potential was altered from negative to positive due to the coating with chitosan. Chitosan-coated NPs showed the sustain release effect up to 48 h with an aerodynamic particle size of 1.82 μm. Moreover, a tremendous increase in cell inhibition was determined by chitosan-coated PLGA NPs. Pharmacokinetics study showed that chitosan coating onto PLGA nanoparticles promoted to release drug in the lungs and increased vivo residence time. Thus, proposed formulations with improved bioavailability can be useful for efficient pulmonary delivery. These nanoparticles coated with chitosan could open a new avenue for effective treatment of lung cancer.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S34091
Title:New inhalation-optimized itraconazole nanoparticle-based dry powders for the treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis
Authors:C. DuretN. WauthozT. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:Purpose: Itraconazole (ITZ) dry powders for inhalation (DPI) composed of nanoparticles (NP) embedded in carrier microparticles were prepared and characterized. Methods: DPIs were initially produced by reducing the ITZ particle size to the nanometer range using high-pressure homogenization with tocopherol polyethylene 1000 succinate (TPGS, 10% w/w ITZ) as a stabilizer. The optimized nanosuspension and the initial microsuspension were then spray-dried with different proportions of or in the absence of mannitol and/or sodium taurocholate. DPI characterization was performed using scanning electron microscopy for morphology, laser diffraction to evaluate the size-reduction process, and the size of the dried NP when reconstituted in aqueous media, impaction studies using a multistage liquid impactor to determine the aerodynamic performance and fine-particle fraction that is theoretically able to reach the lung, and dissolution studies to determine the solubility of ITZ. Results: Scanning electron microscopy micrographs showed that the DPI particles were composed of mannitol microparticles with embedded nano- or micro-ITZ crystals. The formulations prepared from the nanosuspension exhibited good flow properties and better fine-particle fractions, ranging from 46.2% ± 0.5% to 63.2% ± 1.7% compared to the 23.1% ± 0.3% that was observed with the formulation produced from the initial microsuspension. Spray-drying affected the NP size by inducing irreversible aggregation, which was able to be minimized by the addition of mannitol and sodium taurocholate before the drying procedure. The ITZ NP-based DPI considerably increased the ITZ solubility (58 ± 2 increased to 96 ± 1 ng/mL) compared with that of raw ITZ or an ITZ microparticle-based DPI (,10 ng/mL). Conclusion: Embedding ITZ NP in inhalable microparticles is a very effective method to produce DPI formulations with optimal aerodynamic properties and enhanced ITZ solubility. These formulations could be applied to other poorly water-soluble drugs and could be a very effective alternative for treating invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. © 2012 Cárdenas et al, publisher and licensee Dove Medical Press Ltd.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200443120-00002
Title:Clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of inhaled insulin
Authors:J.S. PattonJ.G. BukarM.A. Eldon
Absract:The benefits of intensive insulin therapy in the prevention of complications in patients with diabetes mellitus are now well established. However, the current methods of insulin administration fall well short of the ideal. Consequently, alternative routes of insulin administration have been investigated. The pulmonary route has received the most attention, helped by advances in inhaler devices and insulin formulation technology. As a result, several insulin inhalation systems are at varying stages of development, with one already filed for marketing approval in Europe. Knowledge of the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics of the various inhaled insulin formulations will help to determine their positioning in current and evolving diabetes treatment strategies. For instance, a rapid onset and short duration of action would be desirable for use in postprandial glucose control. Pharmacokinetic studies with inhaled insulin reveal that serum insulin concentrations peak earlier and decay more rapidly following inhalation compared with subcutaneously administered regular insulin, and pharmacodynamic studies measuring glucose infusion rate under euglycaemic glucose clamp show corresponding rapid changes in glucose control. Furthermore, intrapatient variability in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of inhaled insulin is low; variability is similar to (or perhaps less than) that seen when insulin is administered subcutaneously. Estimates of the bioavailability and bioefficacy achievable with the current inhalation systems are typically in the region of 10% of that experienced with subcutaneously administered insulin. Most of the losses are in the device, mouth and throat, with ≈30-50% of the insulin deposited in the lungs being absorbed. Clinical experience to date indicates that inhaled insulin has the potential to be an effective treatment in patients with diabetes, and that it may have particular utility in the treatment of postprandial hyperglycaemia.

pui:23106640
Title:Lung dose, distribution, and clinical response to therapeutic aerosols
Authors:M. Dolovich
Absract:The response to therapeutic aerosols is considered to be a function of the dose deposited at the target site in the lung. The dose, in turn, is dependent upon the system producing the aerosol, the particle size characteristics of the inhaled aerosol, the mode of inhalation, and the calibre of the airways. The influence of the pattern of deposition of the inhaled dose, i.e., selective delivery to the central vs. small, peripheral airways, on the response is not as well defined. Distribution of therapeutic aerosols in the lung has been measured using a variety of tracer methods, correlations with clinical response have been obtained in a limited number of these same studies. Systems used to provide unit doses of therapeutic aerosols are the metered dose inhaler (MDI), containing drug in a pressurized formulation, and the dry powder inhalers (DPI). Efficiency of delivery is on the order of 5-15% for these systems, even under optimal inhalation conditions. Continuous aerosol is provided by the jet or ultrasonic nebulizer with delivery efficiencies ranging from 1 to 5% for the former and approximately 10% for the latter. The particle size of aerosol from these devices ranges from < 1μm mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) to 12 μm MMAD. However, the 'effect' of particle size, once the inspiratory flow rate is taken into account, can be much greater, shifting the deposition pattern to more proximal airways, as does airway narrowing owing to the presence of lung disease. Increased flow rates and changes in airway geometry can alter both the dose deposited and the response and may necessitate the adjustment of dosing levels to meet the needs of the individual patient. By using a variety of methods, deposition efficiency can be improved and medication 'targeted' to the lower respiratory tract to minimize local and systemic side effects. Practically, these methods consist of baffling and the addition of valved spacer devices to the MDI. New formulations and delivery systems are being developed to provide finer, and more respirable aerosols, with sustained action. Knowledge of the lung dose and distribution of inhaled aerosols from these systems is critical for the assessment of their performance in vivo.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.1569
Title:Naringenin-Loaded Dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine Phytosome Dry Powders for Inhaled Treatment of Acute Lung Injury
Authors:Z. YuX. LiuH. ChenL. Zhu
Absract:Background: Acute lung injury is a severe respiratory disorder characterized by overwhelming lung inflammation. Dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) is the major lipid component of pulmonary surfactant, which here acts as a carrier delivery system for drugs, while also preserving surface tension in the lung. The clinical development of naringenin (NG) is limited by its low solubility and bioavailability. Methods: Novel NG-loaded DPPC phytosomes for dry powder inhalation (NPDPIs) were prepared by solvent evaporation and a freeze-drying method. The particle size, electric potential, in vitro release, and lung deposition were characterized. A rat model of acute lung injury was established and used for pharmacodynamic evaluations. Results: A mixture of NG/DPPC 1:2 (w/w) formed stable phytosomes with the addition of appropriate ethanol. The phytosomes had high complexation efficiency (92.1 ± 1.87) with NG, a small mean size (150.8 ± 6.9 nm), and a high zeta potential (20.97 ± 0.55 mV). NPDPIs composed of mannitol/DPPC/NG (4:2:1, w/w/w) presented a satisfactory appearance, good fluidity, quick reconstitution to naringenin phytosomes (NGPs), and small (167.2 nm) reconstituted NGPs. The aerodynamic diameter (12.48 μm) and fine particle fraction (23.90) were suitable for pulmonary delivery by inhalation. The in vivo NPDPIs demonstrated efficacy in a rat model of acute lung injury. NPDPIs significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of P38 in the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and suppressed oxidative stress. Surprisingly, the DPPC vehicle exhibited potential effects against acute lung injury by protecting respiratory function. Conclusions: NPDPIs were developed for sustained drug release, promoting pulmonary bioavailability of drug and protecting against acid-induced acute lung injury in rats by pulmonary delivery. NPDPIs are a promising dry powder inhaler for clinical application in acute lung injury.

doi:10.1080/08958378.2019.1662526
Title:Respirable aerosol exposures of nicotine dry powder formulations to in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo pre-clinical models demonstrate consistency of pharmacokinetic profiles
Authors:D. SciuscioJ. HoengM.C. PeitschP. Vanscheeuwijck
Absract:Background: Nicotine, because of its volatility, has a complex dosimetry following inhalation as a vapor/aerosol mix. To better control the dosimetry, nicotine could be formulated with a suitable dry powder excipient for use in a clinical inhaler. Aim and Methods: The aim of this study was to investigate the pharmacokinetic PK profile of two dry powder formulations containing 2.5% or 5% nicotine using three experimental models associated to the PreciseInhale™ aerosolization system: the in vitro DissolvIt dissolution system; the ex vivo isolated, ventilated, and perfused lung (IPL) of the rat; and the in vivo intratracheally intubated rat. Results and Discussion: Following exposure, both nicotine formulations had very rapid and similar dissolution and absorption kinetics in both the DissolvIt and IPL exposure models, with an initial half-time of absorption to the single-pass perfusate of 34 and 72 seconds, respectively. In the intratracheally intubated rat, following a rapid initial equilibration between the lungs and systemic compartments, nicotine had a systemic elimination half-time of 2.3–2.4 hours for both formulations. The rapid pulmonary PK of nicotine was likely close to the theoretical equilibration of a low-binding substance with a tissue-blood partition coefficient close to 1. Conclusions: The data generated with the three experimental models provided a comprehensive picture of the inhalation PK of the two nicotine formulations. In particular, the results showed a very rapid dissolution and absorption of the two nicotine formulations and these results could be highly useful for improving the design and calibration of physiologically based PK models to produce more robust predictions. Abbreviations: AED: animal equivalent dose; BW: body weight; HPLC: high-performance liquid chromatography; IPL: isolated, ventilated, and perfused lung; PK: pharmacokinetics; SEM: scanning electron microscopy; USP: United States Pharmacopeia.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.03.005
Title:Pharmacokinetic evaluation in mice of amorphous itraconazole-based dry powder formulations for inhalation with high bioavailability and extended lung retention
Authors:C. DuretR. MerlosN. WauthozT. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:Three Itraconazole (ITZ) dry powders for inhalation (DPI) were prepared by spray-drying a mannitol solution in which the ITZ was in suspension (F1) or was in solution without (F2) or with phospholipid (PL) (F3). These powders were endotracheally insufflated in vivo at a single dose of 0.5 mg/kg for pharmacokinetic profile (lung and plasma concentration) determination in ICR CD-1 mice. ITZ was crystalline in F1 and assumed to be amorphous in the F2 and F3 formulations. F2 and F3 formulations allowed the in vitro formation of an ITZ supersaturated solution with a maximum solubility of 450 ± 124 ng/ml (F2) and 498 ± 44 ng/ml (F3), in contrast to formulation F1 (<10 ng/ml). As a result of these higher solubilities, absorption into the systemic compartment after endotracheal administration was faster for formulations F2 and F3 (shorter t@sub_beginmax@sub_end) and in larger quantities compared to the F1 formulation (plasmatic AUC@sub_begin0-24h@sub_end of 182 ng h/ml, 491.5 ng h/ml and 376.8 ng h/ml, and t@sub_beginmax@sub_end of 60 min, 30 min and 5 min for F1, F2 and F3, respectively). PL increased the systemic bioavailability of ITZ (determined by the AUC@sub_beginplasma@sub_end to AUC@sub_beginlung@sub_end ratio) as a consequence of their wetting and absorption enhancement effect. ITZ lung concentrations after pulmonary administration remained higher than the targeted dose, based on the minimal inhibitory concentrations for Aspergillus fumigatus (2 μg/g @sub_beginlung@sub_end), 24 h post-administration for both F1 and F2 formulations. However, this was not the case for formulation F3, which exhibited a faster elimination rate from the lung, with an elimination half-life of 4.1 h vs. 6.5 h and 14.7 h for F1 and F2, respectively.© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2174/156720106775197547
Title:Advances in noninvasive pulmonary gene therapy
Authors:C.L. Densmore
Absract:One of the most noninvasive approaches to drug delivery is via inhalation. The delivery of genes via aerosol holds promise for the treatment of a broad spectrum of pulmonary disorders and offers numerous advantages over more invasive modes of delivery. Delivery of genes expressing secretory therapeutic proteins or peptides may even have application to a number of nonpulmonary diseases. After the cloning of the cystic fibrosis gene, there was great interest in the delivery of genes directly to the lung surfaces via inhalation and most early efforts focused on the use of nonviral vectors, particularly cationic lipids. Early on, nebulization shear forces, inefficient penetration of mucous barriers and inhibitory effects of surfactant and other lung specific features generally resulted in a lack of therapeutic effect. But in recent years, a number of other nonviral and even viral vectors have been delivered successfully in this manner. Polyethyleneimine (PEI)-based formulations have proven stable during nebulization and result in transfection of a very large proportion of epithelial cells throughout the airways (though the level of transgene expression per cell may be relatively low), as well as significant, though lower levels of transfection throughout the lung parenchyma. Most importantly, therapeutic responses have been obtained in several animal lung tumor models when PEI-based complexes of p53 and IL-12 genes were delivered by aerosol. This approach may also prove useful as a means of localized genetic immunization. In addition, inhalation delivery of some formulations seems to be associated with surprisingly low toxicity and has resulted in little or no immunostimulatory response to the unmethylated CpG sequences in bacterially-produced plasmid DNA, which has presented a challenge to repeated gene therapy via many other modes of delivery. © 2006 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13010009
Title:Development and evaluation of paclitaxel and curcumin dry powder for inhalation lung cancer treatment
Authors:W.-H. LeeC.-Y. LooD. TrainiP.M. Young
Absract:Despite the effort to develop efficient targeted drug delivery for lung cancer treatment, the outcome remains unsatisfactory with a survival rate of 15% after 5 years of diagnosis. Inhalation formulation is an ideal alternative that could ensure the direct deposition of chemotherapeutics to the lungs. However, the design of an inhalable formulation that could simultaneously achieve a high local chemotherapeutic dose to the solid tumor and exert low pulmonary toxicities is a challenge, as the presence of 10–30% of chemotherapeutics in the lung is sufficient to induce toxicity. Therefore, this study aimed to develop a simple dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulation containing a model chemotherapeutic agent (paclitaxel, PTX) and a natural antioxidant (curcumin, CUR) that acts to protect healthy lung cells from injury during direct lung delivery. The co-jet-milling of CUR and PTX resulted in formulations with suitable aerosol performance, as indicated in the high fine particle fractions (FPF) (>60%) and adequate mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD). The CUR/PTX combination showed a more potent cytotoxic effect against lung cancer cells. This is evident from the induction of apoptosis/necrotic cell death and G2/M cell cycle arrests in both A549 and Calu-3 cells. The increased intracellular ROS, mitochondrial depolarization and reduced ATP content in A549 and Calu-3 cells indicated that the actions of CUR and PTX were associated with mitochondrial oxidative stress. Interestingly, the presence of CUR is crucial to neutralize the cytotoxic effects of PTX against healthy cells (Beas-2B), and this is dose-dependent. This study presents a simple approach to formulating an effective DPI formulation with preferential cytotoxicity towards lung cancer.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0087825
Title:New mechanisms to explain the effects of added lactose fines on the dispersion performance of adhesive mixtures for inhalation
Authors:F. GrasmeijerA.J. LexmondM. Van Den NoortP. HagedoornA.J. HickeyH.W. FrijlinkA.H. De Boer
Absract:Fine excipient particles or 'fines' have been shown to improve the dispersion performance of carrier-based formulations for dry powder inhalation. Mechanistic formulation studies have focussed mainly on explaining this positive effect. Previous studies have shown that higher drug contents may cause a decrease in dispersion performance, and there is no reason why this should not be true for fines with a similar shape, size and cohesiveness as drug particles. Therefore, the effects on drug detachment of 'fine lactose fines' (FLF, X @sub_begin50@sub_end = 1.95 mm) with a similar size and shape as micronised budesonide were studied and compared to those of 'coarse lactose fines' (CLF, X @sub_begin50@sub_end = 3.94 mm). Furthermore, interactions with the inhalation flow rate, the drug content and the mixing order were taken into account. The observed effects of FLF are comparable to drug content effects in that the detached drug fraction was decreased at low drug content and low flow rates but increased at higher flow rates. At high drug content the effects of added FLF were negligible. In contrast, CLF resulted in higher detached drug fractions at all flow rates and drug contents. The results from this study suggest that the effects of fines may be explained by two new mechanisms in addition to those previously proposed. Firstly, fines below a certain size may increase the effectiveness of press-on forces or cause the formation of strongly coherent fine particle networks on the carrier surface containing the drug particles. Secondly, when coarse enough, fines may prevent the formation of, or disrupt such fine particle networks, possibly through a lowering of their tensile strength. It is recommended that future mechanistic studies are based on the recognition that added fines may have any effect on dispersion performance, which is determined by the formulation and dispersion conditions. © 2014 Grasmeijer et al.

doi:10.1002/phar.1605
Title:Acute Sensorineural Hearing Loss after Abuse of an Inhaled, Crushed Oxymorphone Extended-Release Tablet
Authors:L.E. MacdonaldJ.E. OnsrudR. Mullins-Hodgin
Absract:Oxymorphone, a semisynthetic μ-opioid receptor agonist, is the major active metabolite of oxycodone. It is a highly potent narcotic analgesic due to its high lipid solubility, which allows it to readily cross the blood-brain barrier and enter the central nervous system. It is available as both an immediate-release and extended-release (ER) formulation. Oxymorphone can be abused by injection or inhalation of crushed tablets; thus, in 2011, the manufacturer of ER oxymorphone reformulated the drug with crush-resistant technology to deter its misuse and abuse. We describe the case of a previously healthy, 24-year-old male who experienced reproducible acute subjective bilateral temporary hearing loss that occurred after inhalation of oxymorphone. He presented to the emergency department complaining of acute bilateral hearing loss after he reported snorting a crushed oxymorphone ER 30-mg tablet. Emergency department evaluation revealed obvious bilateral hearing loss as well as coincidental aspiration pneumonia. The patient's medical history revealed that he had experienced a similar episode of hearing loss after a previous episode of oxymorphone inhalation. His hearing loss began to improve 3 hours after presentation to the emergency department and was completely resolved by the following day. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale revealed oxymorphone to be a probable cause of this patient's acute hearing loss (score of 6). The mechanism of action of opioid-associated hearing loss (OAHL) is not completely understood, but it is thought to be due to disturbances within the cochlea, such as cochlear ischemia. To our knowledge, this is only the second published case report of acute reversible hearing loss following oxymorphone inhalation and the first published case report of reproducible OAHL. Since opioid misuse continues to be prevalent despite attempts at reformulations to make the drugs crush resistant, a high degree of clinical suspicion is needed to evaluate and treat patients who present with unique findings after episodes of substance abuse, especially those related to tamper-resistant formulations.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S40904
Title:Physicochemical characterization and aerosol dispersion performance of organic solution advanced spray-dried cyclosporine A multifunctional particles for dry powder inhalation aerosol delivery
Authors:X. WuW. ZhangD. Hayes Jr.H.M. Mansour
Absract:In this systematic and comprehensive study, inhalation powders of the polypeptide immunosuppressant drug - cyclosporine A - for lung delivery as dry powder inhalers (DPIs) were successfully designed, developed, and optimized. Several spray drying pump rates were rationally chosen. Comprehensive physicochemical characterization and imaging was carried out using scanning electron microscopy, hot-stage microscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, powder X-ray diffraction, Karl Fischer titration, laser size diffraction, and gravimetric vapor sorption. Aerosol dispersion performance was conducted using a next generation impactor with a Food and Drug Administration-approved DPI device. These DPIs displayed excellent aerosol dispersion performance with high values in emitted dose, respirable fraction, and fine particle fraction. In addition, novel multifunctional inhalation aerosol powder formulations of cyclosporine A with lung surfactant-mimic phospholipids were also successfully designed and developed by advanced organic solution cospray drying in closed mode. The lung surfactant-mimic phospholipids were 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine and 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-(phosphor-rac-1-glycerol). These cyclosporine A lung surfactant-mimic aerosol powder formulations were comprehensively characterized. Powder X-ray diffraction and differential scanning calorimetry confirmed that the phospholipid bilayer structure in the solid state was preserved following advanced organic solution spray drying in closed mode. These novel multifunctional inhalation powders were optimized for DPI delivery with excellent aerosol dispersion performance and high aerosol performance parameters. © 2013 Wu et al, publisher and licensee Dove Medical Press Ltd.

doi:10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19970401)79:7<1409::AID-CNCR19>3.0.CO;2-3
Title:Interleukin-2 liposome inhalation therapy is safe and effective for dogs with spontaneous pulmonary metastases
Authors:C. KhannaP.M. AndersonD.E. HaszE. KatsanisM. NevilleJ.S. Klausner
Absract:BACKGROUND. Systemic in vivo toxicity of interleukin-2 (IL-2) has been problematic. Antineoplastic activity of IL-2 has been modest. The authors have previously demonstrated the biologic activity and safety of aerosols of IL-2 liposomes in normal dogs. They now report objective regression of naturally occurring pulmonary metastases in dogs after 1 month of nebulized IL-2 liposome therapy. METHODS. Dogs with pulmonary metastases (n = 7) and primary lung carcinoma (n = 2) were treated with aerosols of IL-2 liposomes. Response to therapy was monitored with serial chest radiographs. Effector populations, collected by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and from heparinized whole blood, were assessed for cell type, immunophenotype, and tumor cytolytic activity. Immunogenicity of human IL-2 and human serum albumin (HSA) in dogs was assessed by immunofluorescence assay. RESULTS. Two of four dogs with metastatic pulmonary osteosarcoma had complete regression of metastases; the regression remained stable for more than 12 and more than 20 months, respectively. One of two dogs with lung carcinoma had stabilization of disease for more than 8 months; the other had disease progression. Toxicity was minimal. BAL cell numbers increased more than fourfold (P = 0.01) and included significantly greater proportions and total numbers of eosinophils (P = 0.006) and lymphocytes (P = 0.008). Mean BAL effector lytic activity was significantly greater after 15 days of IL-2 liposome inhalation compared with pretreatment activity (P = 0.01); however, mean BAL lytic activity decreased after 30 days and was no longer significantly greater than pretreatment BAL lytic activity. No allergic reactions were associated with inhaled IL-2 liposome therapy. Canine antibodies against human IL-2 and HSA were detected in all dogs. CONCLUSIONS. Pet dogs with naturally occurring pulmonary metastases and primary lung carcinomas accepted inhalation treatments easily. Nontoxic and effective treatment of pulmonary metastases of osteosarcoma is possible with nebulized IL-2 liposomes.

doi:10.1073/pnas.2102957118
Title:Inhalable nanocatchers for SARS-CoV-2 inhibition
Authors:H. ZhangW. ZhuQ. JinF. PanJ. ZhuY. LiuL. ChenJ. ShenY. YangQ. ChenZ. Liu
Absract:The global coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)–like coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), presents an urgent health crisis. More recently, an increasing number of mutated strains of SARS-CoV-2 have been identified globally. Such mutations, especially those on the spike glycoprotein to render its higher binding affinity to human angiotensin-converting enzyme II (hACE2) receptors, not only resulted in higher transmission of SARS-CoV-2 but also raised serious concerns regarding the efficacies of vaccines against mutated viruses. Since ACE2 is the virus-binding protein on human cells regardless of viral mutations, we design hACE2-containing nanocatchers (NCs) as the competitor with host cells for virus binding to protect cells from SARS-CoV-2 infection. The hACE2-containing NCs, derived from the cellular membrane of genetically engineered cells stably expressing hACE2, exhibited excellent neutralization ability against pseudoviruses of both wild-type SARS-CoV-2 and the D614G variant. To prevent SARS-CoV-2 infections in the lung, the most vulnerable organ for COVID-19, we develop an inhalable formulation by mixing hACE2-containing NCs with mucoadhesive excipient hyaluronic acid, the latter of which could significantly prolong the retention of NCs in the lung after inhalation. Excitingly, inhalation of our formulation could lead to potent pseudovirus inhibition ability in hACE2-expressing mouse model, without imposing any appreciable side effects. Importantly, our inhalable hACE2-containing NCs in the lyophilized formulation would allow long-term storage, facilitating their future clinical use. Thus, this work may provide an alternative tactic to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infections even with different mutations, exhibiting great potential for treatment of the ongoing COVID-19 epidemic.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2021.102435
Title:Recent updates in COVID-19 with emphasis on inhalation therapeutics: Nanostructured and targeting systems
Authors:A.A.H. AbdellatifH.M. TawfeekA. AbdelfattahG. El-Saber BatihaH.F. Hetta
Absract:The current world health threat posed by the novel coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) calls for the urgent development of effective therapeutic options. COVID-19 needs daunting routes such as nano-antivirals. Hence, the role of nanotechnology is very critical in combating this nano-enemy “virus.” Although substantial resources are under ongoing attention for prevention and care, we would like to start sharing with readers our vision of the role of inhaled nanomaterials and targeting systems that can play an important role in the fight against the COVID-19. In this review, we underline the genomic structure of COVID-19, recent modes of virus transmission with measures to control the infection, pathogenesis, clinical presentation of SARS-CoV-2, and how much the virus affects the lung. Additionally, the recent therapeutic approaches for managing COVID-19 with emphasis on the value of nanomaterial-based technical approaches are discussed in this review. This review also focuses on the safe and efficient delivery of useable targeted therapies using designed nanocarriers. Moreover, the effectiveness and availability of active targeting of certain specific receptors expressed on the coronavirus surfaces via tailored ligand nanoparticles are manipulated. It was also highlighted in this review the role of inhaled medicines including antivirals and repurposed drugs for fighting the associated lung disorders and efficiency of developed vaccines. Moreover, the inhalation delivery safety techniques were also highlighted.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2010.01.010
Title:In vivo assessment of temozolomide local delivery for lung cancer inhalation therapy
Authors:N. WauthozP. DeleuzeJ. HecqI. RolandS. SaussezI. AdanjaO. DebeirC. DecaesteckerV. MathieuR. KissK. Amighi
Absract:The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of local drug delivery by inhalation to intravenous delivery in a B16F10 melanoma metastatic lung model. Temozolomide was formulated as a suspension, which was elaborated and evaluated in terms of particle size, shape and agglomeration. An endotracheal administration device was used to aerosolise the suspension. This mode of delivery was evaluated at different temozolomide concentrations and was optimized for the uniformity of delivered dose, the droplet size distribution and the distribution of droplets in vivo. Of the particles in the stabilised suspension, 79% were compatible with the human respirable size range, and this formulation retained 100% in vitro anticancer activity as compared to temozolomide alone in three distinct cancer cell lines. The pulmonary delivery device provided good reproducibility in terms of both the dose delivered and the droplet size distribution. Most of the lung tissues that were exposed to aerosol droplets contained the particles, as revealed by fluorescent microscopy techniques. The global in vivo antitumour activity of the inhaled temozolomide provided a median survival period similar to that for intravenous temozolomide delivery, and three out of 27 mice (11%) survived with almost complete eradication of the lung tumours. The present study thus shows that inhalation of a simple liquid formulation is well tolerated and active against a very biologically aggressive mouse melanoma pulmonary pseudo-metastatic model. This inhalation delivery could be used to deliver other types of anticancer drugs. © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.5055/jom.2018.0475
Title:Abuse-deterrent properties of REMOXY® ER, a high-viscosity extended-release oxycodone formulation
Authors:S.A. KuceraM.S. ZamlootM.M. CrowleyL.H. BurnsN. FriedmannR. Barbier
Absract:Objective: These in vitro studies compared abuse-deterrent properties of REMOXY ER (extended-release oxycodone), a novel, high-viscosity gel formulation, versus the two currently marketed ER oxycodone formulations. Methods: Tampering methods were tailored to each product to maximize oxy-codone release with the least complexity, time, and effort, based on the physical/chemical properties of each formulation. Oral abuse was simulated by extracting oxycodone from each manipulated formulation in Common Ingestible Liquids and in Advanced Solvents (not ingestible and requiring additional separation). To simulate injection abuse, oxycodone was extracted from each manipulated formulation in low volumes of injection vehicles, heated or unheated. Inhalation abuse potential was assessed by volatilization. Results: In oral abuse simulations, manipulated REMOXY ER released 2-22 percent of its oxycodone in 20 minutes in five Common Ingestible Liquids, versus 77-85 percent oxycodone released from OxyContin® ER in 5 minutes in four of the five. In six Advanced Solvents, REMOXY ER released 3-37 percent at 20 minutes, versus 55-89 percent released from OxyContin ER at 5 minutes. Minimal oxycodone was extracted from REMOXY ER in five injection vehicles, heated or unheated. In contrast, OxyContin ER released 65-87 percent of its oxycodone within 10 minutes in all vehicles, regardless of heating. Xtampza® ER released 96 percent of its oxy-codone in a heated injection vehicle and released 50-60 percent in two unheated injection vehicles. Showing minimal inhalation abuse potential, 9 percent of oxy-codone was vaporized from manipulated REMOXY ER at 20 minutes compared to 8.8 percent at 5 minutes for OxyContin ER. Conclusions: In these studies, REMOXY ER demonstrated robust and meaningful abuse-deterrence relative to OxyContin ER and Xtampza ER. Perspective: Abuse-deterrent drugs were intended to help fight opioid abuse. Yet, the persistence of the opioid epidemic indicates that vast improvements in abuse-deterrent technology are sorely needed. A new, high-viscosity, ER oxycodone formulation showed much improved abuse-deterrent properties in simulations of oral, injection, and inhalation abuse, compared to earlier, first-generation formulations.

doi:10.1006/rtph.2000.1421
Title:Pharmaceutical excipient development: The need for preclinical guidance
Authors:P. Baldrick
Absract:Pharmaceutical excipients have a vital role in drug formulations, a role that has tended to be neglected as evidenced by the lack of mechanisms to assess excipient safety outside a new drug application process. Currently, it is assumed that an excipient is 'approved' when the new drug formulation, of which it is a constituent, receives regulatory acceptance. Existing regulations and guidelines indicate that new (novel) excipients should be treated as new chemical entities with full toxicological evaluation. No guidance is available for potentially useful materials (essentially new excipients) available from other industries, e.g., food additives or for established excipients with a new application, e.g., dose route change. However, despite this situation, drug companies are actively evaluating new materials or applying new uses to established excipients. Recently developed excipients (e.g., materials giving 'sugar-free' status to medical preparations, the cyclodextrins, and the hydrofluoroalkane inhalation propellants) and excipients undergoing development (e.g., chitosan, various enteric coating substances, liposomes, polymers derived from glycolic and lactic acids, and vaccine adjuvants) are all discussed. In light of many other areas of drug development having recently benefited from new or updated regulatory guidance, specific guidance to assist companies in the development of their excipients is urgently needed. Also, an excipient testing strategy would be an excellent topic for inclusion for International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) consideration. Such guidance/discussion would complement the current advances in pharmacopoeial standardization of excipient quality. As a consequence, it may be possible to have excipients reviewed by a committee of an international pharmacopoeia with the safety data assessed by elected experts and published. (C) 2000 Academic Press.

doi:10.1016/S0169-409X(03)00077-2
Title:Inhalation therapy: Technological milestones in asthma treatment
Authors:R. DalbyJ. Suman
Absract:The humble origins of the propellant driven metered dose inhaler, as a response to a child's enquiry, initiated an industry which supplies approximately a half billion inhalers globally for the treatment of asthma. These inhalers fall into three major groups: nebulizers; propellant driven metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers. Each requires drug formulation, metering and device technology to be successful. In recent years there have been several new developments in the field including auxiliary systems to improve drug delivery from the device to the patient and new categories of device, notably single breath aqueous systems. As device technology improves and our understanding of the disease leads to new drugs the only barrier to therapy is the patient. Patient training and compliance will continue to be important factors in the success, or failure, of inhaled therapy and the role of health care professionals will depend on who sponsors their intervention. © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:25142136
Title:Performance-modifying influences in dry powder inhalation systems
Authors:J.N. Staniforth
Absract:Although dry powder inhaler (DPI) systems offer many advantages over conventional pressurized metered dose aerosols for therapeutic use, there are a number of formulation-related aspects of functionality which can significantly reduce DPI performance. A general introduction is provided to the physical requirements for preparation of efficient and effective therapeutic aerosols and dry powder inhaler systems in particular. Of a number of important DPI design factors high lighted in the introduction, the present study concentrates on two specific ex vivo performance-modifying influences of particle characteristics used in dry powder inhalers. Firstly, powder entrainment characteristics were studied using a model system and it was found that particle-entrainment tube (device) interactions were of two main types, depending on whether coarse or fine lactose particles were involved. In the case of coarse particles (in the range 90-180 μm), entrainment was found to depend on mean linear air velocity (in the range 5- 15 ms@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and tube diameter. For fine particles (in the range 63-90 μm), entrainment was found to be dependent on both tube diameter and pressure drop at the site of entrainment. Further, in the case of lactose carrier particles > 90 μm, entrainment was found to be complete in a small velocity spread, unlike the behavior of finer particles (< 90 μm). Secondly, powder blend homogeneity/stability was found to be a function of the number and nature of the contacting surfaces. Optimum homogeneity of lactose/salbutamol blends was achieved with single contact surface blending. Blends were destabilized by contact with dissimilar second contact surfaces.

doi:10.15171/PS.2017.41
Title:Preparation and characterization of Celecoxib agglomerated nanocrystals and dry powder inhalation formulations to improve its aerosolization performance
Authors:S. MardaniM. MaghsoodiS. GhanbarzadehA. NokhodchiS. YaqoubiH. Hamishehkar
Absract:Background: Celecoxib is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used extensively in the treatment of pain, arthritis, and cancers. However, its administration is limited due to its several disadvantages including gastric irritation and hepatic first pass metabolism. Among numerous methods for pulmonary drug delivery, dry powder inhalation systems show the promising approach to be used as alternative routes for oral drug delivery. This study was conducted to develop agglomerated nanocrystals and carrier-free Celecoxib dry powder inhalation formulation for pulmonary delivery in lung cancer treatment. Methods: Spray dried Celecoxib, Celecoxib nanocrystals, and agglomerated nanocrystals were characterized in the case of particle size distribution, crystallinity, and aerosolization efficiency including mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), fine particle fraction (FPF), and geometric standard deviation (GSD) by Next Generation Impactor (NGI). Results: Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analyses showed the lack of any interaction and polymorphism in the prepared formulations. Results showed that the optimized spray-dried formulation of Celecoxib was in the appropriate size range, and shape for pulmonary delivery. MMAD, FPF, and GSD values for spray-dried formulation were 31.93±3.93%, 4.82±0.21 m, and 1.81±0.05, respectively. Conclusion: Although the agglomerated nanocrystals of Celecoxib showed comparable aerosolization efficiency indexes with carrier free spray-dried Celecoxib formulation, further investigations are necessary to optimize the agglomeration process to obtain agglomerated nanocrystals of Celecoxib with improved aerosolization efficiency indexes.

doi:10.1183/09031936.97.10061345
Title:In vitro comparison of the amount of salbutamol available for inhalation from different formulations used with different spacer devices
Authors:P.W. BarryC. O'Callaghan
Absract:Metered-dose inhalers (MDLs) are currently being reformulated to contain hydrofluoroalkanes (HFAs), which do not damage the Earth's ozone layer. As different formulations of inhaled drugs may behave differently when used with spacer devices, we wished to determine the amount of salbutamol available for inhalation from a conventional metered-dose inhaler (Ventolin®) and a new HFA-containing formulation (Airomir®), when used with two different spacers. A glass multistage liquid impinger was used to determine the amount of salbutamol delivered from the inhalers used with the Aerochamber® and the Nebuhaler® spacer devices. High speed video-recordings of inhaler actuation into air were made, and the speed of the aerosol and the aerosol cloud volume were measured. More salbutamol in small particles (<5 μm) was delivered from the Airomir® MDI than the Ventolin® MDI, when used with the Aerochamber® (40.4 (95% confidence interval (95% CI) 31.2-49.6) versus 19.5 (19.0-20.0) μg) and the Nebuhaler® (42.1 (36.3-47.9) versus 24.6 (23.3-25.8) μg). The aerosol cloud from the Airomir® MDI was slower than the Ventolin® aerosol, and 60 ms after actuation had travelled 186 mm, whereas the Ventolin® aerosol had travelled 320 mm. At the same time, the Airomir® aerosol occupied a smaller volume than the Ventolin® MDI (251 (213-288) versus 695 (608-782) cm@sup_begin3@sup_end). The hydrofluoroalkane formulation delivers more salbutamol than the conventional formulation when used either with the Aerochamber® or Nebuhaler® spacer. This may be because less drug is deposited in the spacer from the hydrofluoroalkane formulation, which is emitted from the metered- dose inhaler at a slower speed and occupies a smaller volume than the conventional formulation. The observed difference in drug delivery may be important for patients changing formulations, and in severe asthma, where high doses of salbutamol may be administered through a spacer.

doi:10.1007/BF02850011
Title:An easy-to-use dry-powder inhaler
Authors:J.P. Karpel
Absract:The mometasone furoate dry-powder inhaler is a novel device designed to support compliance by delivering a topical corticosteroid in a simple three-step operation. This breath-actuated inhaler uses a stabilized agglomerate formulation to measure and deliver accurate, uniform, and precise doses of drug over a range of inspiratory flow rates. Laboratory and clinical data have shown that the design produced a simple, clinically effective inhaler for the treatment of adults and children 12 years of age and older with mild, moderate, or severe persistent asthma.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12111032
Title:An overview on spray-drying of protein-loaded polymeric nanoparticles for dry powder inhalation
Authors:T. MaranteC. ViegasI. DuarteA.S. MacedoP. Fonte
Absract:The delivery of therapeutic proteins remains a challenge, despite recent technological advances. While the delivery of proteins to the lungs is the gold standard for topical and systemic therapy through the lungs, the issue still exists. While pulmonary delivery is highly attractive due to its non-invasive nature, large surface area, possibility of topical and systemic administration, and rapid absorption circumventing the first-pass effect, the absorption of therapeutic proteins is still ineffective, largely due to the immunological and physicochemical barriers of the lungs. Most studies using spray-drying for the nanoencapsulation of drugs focus on the delivery of conventional drugs, which are less susceptible to bioactivity loss, compared to proteins. Herein, the development of polymeric nanoparticles by spray-drying for the delivery of therapeutic proteins is reviewed with an emphasis on its advantages and challenges, and the techniques to evaluate their in vitro and in vivo performance. The protein stability within the carrier and the features of the carrier are properly addressed.

doi:10.1002/jps.10558
Title:Evaluation of the Malvern Spraytec® with Inhalation Cell for the Measurement of Particle Size Distribution from Metered Dose Inhalers
Authors:A. HaynesM.S. ShaikH. KrarupM. Singh
Absract:The purpose of this study was to evaluate the Malvern Spraytec® with inhalation cell attachment as a means of analyzing the particle size distribution of aerosols from pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). The aerosol particle size distribution of various commercially available, placebo, and experimental pMDI formulations was determined using Spraytec® under various experimental conditions and the relevant data were compared with the Andersen cascade impactor data. The Spraytec® volume median diameter (Dv 50) values for commercial chlorofluorocarbon- and hydrofluoroalkane (HFA)-based pMDIs were respectively smaller and higher compared with their reported mass median aerodynamic diameter values. It was possible to obtain a close agreement between Spraytec® Dv 50 and the reported mass median aerodynamic diameter values for a solution-type pMDI formulation, Qvar 50, by equilibrating the pMDI to 55°C before the measurement and using a 20-cm throat extension. Incorporation of a nonvolatile solvent propylene glycol (PG) in placebo pMDIs (15% w/w ethanol, 0.5-20.0% w/w PG in HFA 134a) showed an increase in Dv 50 with increasing concentration of PG. Furthermore, it was possible to obtain a correlation (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.8037) between Spraytec® and Andersen cascade impactor data for the experimental nimesulide-pMDI formulations containing 0.1% w/w drug, 0.25-10% w/w PG, and 15% ethanol in HFA 134a. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

pui:366206117
Title:Development and bioequivalence testing for inhaled therapeutics
Authors:S. DoddsW. HicksB. Schachtner
Absract:Here, Stephen Dodds, Manager, Regulatory Affairs, Wesley Hicks, PhD, Senior Medical Director, Global Product Development, and Bill Schachtner, Associate Director, cGMP Labs, all of PPD, describe the regulatory requirements for bioequivalence testing of inhalables, and explain why it is important to select a service provider with cababilities across the board in this regard. Copyright © 2012 Frederick Furness Publishing.

pui:627703874
Title:Brief analysis and comprehensive evaluation of devices for dry powder inhalation
Authors:L. GaoY.-N. MaY.-M. WangL.-L. NingF.-Y. Yao
Absract:Unlike most drug products, the design of the device can influence the performance and clinical efficacy of a dry powder inhaler drug product directly. In this review, we focus on the classification, development, patient use and regulatory requirements of the device. Furthermore, we made a briefly comprehensive evaluation on the formulation, quality attributes, device of dry powder inhaler drug products.

pui:621649755
Title:Gas plasma processing: A long-term solution for respiratory devices
Authors:A. Sule
Absract:Ameet Sule, Head of H&T Presspart’s Inhalation Product Technology Centre (IPCT), discusses the new challenges arising in metered dose inhaler design since the change from CFC to HFA propellants, in particular focusing on the tendency for drug product to adhere or degrade when in contact with the aluminium interior of the canister. As a solution, Mr Sule proposes new developments in gas plasma processing.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.05.007
Title:Stabilized terbutaline submicron drug aerosol for deep lungs deposition: Drug assay, pulmonokinetics and biodistribution by UHPLC/ESI-q-TOF-MS method
Authors:M. FaiyazuddinN. AhmadR.K. KharA. BhatnagarF.J. Ahmad
Absract:Terbutaline submicron particles (SμTBS) were prepared by nanoprecipitation technique followed by spray drying for deep lungs deposition. Inhalable SμTBS particles were 645.16 nm of diameter with 0.11 μm of MMAD, suggested for better aerosol effects. Both submicron and micron-sized TBS particles were administered in rodents administered via major delivery routes, and their biological effects were compared by using UHPLC/ESI-q-TOF-MS method. TBS was found stable in all exposed conditions with 96.28-99.0% of recovery and <4.34% of accuracy (CV). An inhalation device was designed and validated to deliver medicines to lungs, which was found best at dose level of 25 mg for 30 min of fluidization. Both submicron and micron particles were compared for in vivo lung deposition and a 1.67 fold increase in concentration was observed for SμTBS exposed by inhalation. Optimized DPI formulation contained lesser fraction of ultrafine particle (<500 nm) with the major fraction of submicron particles (>500 nm), advocated for better targeting to lungs. UHPLC/ESI-q-TOF-MS confirmed that designed submicron particles has been successfully delivered to the lungs. From tongue to lungs, the landing of pulmonary medicines can be improved by submicronization technology. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(03)00357-0
Title:Effects of carriers and storage of formulation on the lung deposition of a hydrophobic and hydrophilic drug from a DPI
Authors:P. HarjunenT. LankinenH. SalonenV.-P. LehtoK. Järvinen
Absract:The effects of carriers, the drug:carrier ratio and a 1 month storage period of a formulation in permeable polystyrene tube at 40°C/75% RH on the in vitro pulmonary deposition of model drugs from dry powder inhaler (DPI) were evaluated. Budesonide (hydrophobic) and salbutamol sulphate (hydrophilic) were used as model drugs. Mannitol and glucose were used as the carriers. In addition, lactose 110M was used as the carrier for budesonide. The novel multiple dose Taifun® was used as a DPI; Taifun® is a breath-actuated inhaler that contains the powder formulation in a reservoir chamber. The respirable fractions (RF%) values of the drugs were determined by the "Andersen" sampler. The RF% values of salbutamol sulphate increased with an increase in the drug:carrier ratio before storage, whereas the drug:carrier ratio did not affect the RF% values after storage. In the case of budesonide, the drug:carrier ratio did not affect the RF% values before storage, instead the RF% values of budesonide increased with an increase in the drug:carrier ratio after storage. The RF% values of salbutamol sulphate decreased after storage of the formulation, this was not dependent on the carrier and the drug:carrier ratio. However, with budesonide the effect of the storage on its RF% values was dependent on which carrier was used and also the drug:carrier ratio. Overall, storage had less effect on the RF% values of budesonide than those of salbutamol sulphate. The highest RF% values of budesonide were obtained when mannitol was used as the carrier. Furthermore, the RF% values of salbutamol sulphate tended to be higher when mannitol was used as the carrier instead of glucose. © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:24295376
Title:Pharmaceutical formulations - Suspensions and solutions
Authors:P. EdmanG.C. SmaldoneJ. Pritchard
Absract:Solutions and suspensions of drugs are used widely in the pharmaceutical industry for production of dosage forms for different routes of administration; for example, oral, parenteral and inhalation. Pharmaceutical solutions and suspensions might appear to be simple formulations but they can present many technical problems both for the manufacturing industry and for the individual pharmacist. Substances can be chemically unstable, insoluble in water, distasteful etc. Suspensions are often used as a dosage form when the drug is insoluble in water and when use of solubilizing agents is not possible. Based on method of preparation, suspensions can be divided into two categories, flocculated and deflocculated systems.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13020233
Title:Systemic delivery of hghrelin derivative by lyophilizate for dry powder inhalation system in monkeys
Authors:K. MiyamotoY. IshibashiT. AkitaC. Yamashita
Absract:Ghrelin is the peptide that increases the hunger sensation and food intake and is expected to be clinically applied for treatment of diseases such as cachexia and anorexia nervosa. In the clinical application of ghrelin, injections are problematic in that they are invasive and inconvenient. Thus, we aimed to develop a formulation that can eliminate the need for injections and can be applied clinically. We prepared formulations of an hGhrelin derivative, in which the octanoyl group essential for expression of activity is modified to avoid rapid des-acylation, using lyophilizate for a dry powder inhalation (LDPI) system. The formulation of hGhrelin derivative was optimized by the addition of phenylalanine, of which the fine particle fraction of 5 µm or less was 41.7 ± 3.8%. We also performed pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic tests in monkeys using the optimum formulation that can be applied clinically. The absolute bioavailability of inhaled hGhrelin derivative with respect to that intravenously injected was 16.9 ± 2.6%. An increase in growth hormone was shown as an effect of the inhaled hGhrelin derivative similar to intravenous injection. The LDPI formulation can deliver the hGhrelin derivative systemically, and it is expected to be applied clinically as a substitute for injections.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpx.2019.100018
Title:Biophysical model to predict lung delivery from a dual bronchodilator dry-powder inhaler
Authors:M.B. DolovichA. KuttlerT.J. DimkeO.S. Usmani
Absract:A biophysical lung model was designed to predict inhaled drug deposition in patients with obstructive airway disease, and quantitatively investigate sources of deposition variability. Different mouth-throat anatomies at varying simulated inhalation flows were used to calculate the lung dose of indacaterol/glycopyrronium [IND/GLY] 110/50 µg (QVA149) from the dry-powder inhaler Breezhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end. Sources of variability in lung dose were studied using computational fluid dynamics, supported by aerosol particle sizing measurements, particle image velocimetry and computed tomography. Anatomical differences in mouth-throat geometries were identified as a major source of inter-subject variability in lung deposition. Lung dose was similar across inhalation flows of 30–120 L/min with a slight drop in calculated delivery at high inspiratory flows. Delivery was relatively unaffected by inhaler inclination angle. The delivered lung dose of the fixed-dose combination IND/GLY matched well with corresponding monotherapy doses. This biophysical model indicates low extra-thoracic drug loss and consistent lung delivery of IND/GLY, independent of inhalation flows. This is an important finding for patients across various ages and lung disease severities. The model provides a quantitative, mechanistic simulation of inhaled therapies that could provide a test system for estimating drug delivery to the lung and complement traditional clinical studies.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00502
Title:Naked pDNA Inhalation Powder Composed of Hyaluronic Acid Exhibits High Gene Expression in the Lungs
Authors:T. ItoT. OkudaY. TakashimaH. Okamoto
Absract:Gene therapy is a breakthrough treatment strategy against several intractable and lethal diseases that previously lacked established treatments. Viral and nonviral vectors have been studied to realize higher gene transfection efficiencies and to suppress the degradation of gene by nucleolytic enzymes in vivo. However, it is often the case that the addition of a vector results in adverse effects. In this study, we identified formulations of dry naked plasmid DNA (pDNA) powders with no vector showing significantly higher gene expression than pDNA solutions including vectors such as polyethylenimine (PEI) in the lungs of mice. We prepared the naked pDNA powders by spray-freeze-drying with various excipients. The gene expression of naked pDNA powders exceeded those of pDNA solutions containing PEI, naked pDNA solution, and reconstituted pDNA powder. Gene expression of each naked pDNA powder was dependent on the composition of excipients. Among them, the mice that were administered the pDNA powder composed of low-molecular-weight hyaluronic acid (LHA) as an excipient showed the highest gene expression. The lactate dehydrogenase activity and concentration of inflammatory cytokines in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were comparable to those caused by ultrapure water. The results suggest that useful dry naked nucleic acid powders for inhalation could be created by optimizing the excipients, offering new insights into the development of pulmonary gene therapy.

doi:10.1161/circ.140.suppl_1.12947
Title:In vivo efficacy of a novel, inhaled PDGFRa/b inhibitor, GB002, in the rat monocrotaline and pneumonectomy model of pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:R. SitaparaD. SleeL. Salter-CidL. Zisman
Absract:Introduction: The PDGF pathway has been demonstrated to be involved in vascular remodeling in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). GB002 is a novel, potent, clinical stage inhibitor of PDGFRa/ß delivered via inhalation. The rat Monocrotaline (MCT) model in combination with a pneumonectomy (PN), develops a neointimal pattern of remodeling and severe right ventricle hypertrophy providing a model resembling human PAH. Hypothesis: Inhaled GB002 would lower pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PAS) and lessen the severity of neointimal lesions in an MCT+PN Model thus preventing PAH progression. Methods: Study rats underwent implantation of a pulmonary artery monitoring telemetry catheter (DSI PAC40) and left pneumonectomy (2 in the GB002 group only underwent left pneumonectomy). Ten days (d) post-surgery, all rats were given MCT (50mg/kg, IP). Rats were dosed with either a dry powder formulation of GB002 (n=7, 20 d post-MCT) or Vehicle (V) (n=12, 16 d post-MCT) by nose-only inhalation for 30 min twice a day. PAS was monitored during the treatment (tx) period and at the end of the study, histological assessments of lung tissue remodeling and neointimal lesions were performed. Results: On days 9, 10, and 11, the PAS of the GB002-tx group was 34%, 37%, and 41% lower than that of the V-tx group (p<0.05). Tx with GB002 was associated with reduced lung remodeling and significantly fewer grade 1 (p<0.05) and grade 2 (p<0.0001) neointimal lesions vs the V-tx group. GB002 was well tolerated. Conclusions: These data demonstrate that inhaled delivery of the PDGFRa/ß inhibitor, GB002, after onset of severe pulmonary hypertension, is efficacious in preventing PAH progression and pathological lung remodeling in the MCT+PN model. GB002 is currently under clinical development as a potential therapy for PAH patients.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S47456
Title:Dry powder cationic lipopolymeric nanomicelle inhalation for targeted delivery of antitubercular drug to alveolar macrophage
Authors:M.V. VadakkanK. AnnapoornaK.C. SivakumarS. MundayoorG.S.V. Kumar
Absract:Excipients having self-assembling properties are less explored in the field of dry powder inhalation (DPI) technology. An amphiphilic lipopolymer system was developed using stearic acid (SA) and branched polyethyleneimine (BPEI) (1800 Dalton), at different proportions by covalent conjugation. A molecular dynamic (MD) simulation tool was employed for predicting the carrier behavior in a polar in vivo condition. The structural characterization was carried out using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The physical nature of the lipopolymer was analyzed by differential scanning calorimetry. Determination of zeta potential and diameter of the micelles showed existence of cationic particles in the nano size range when a lower number of primary amino groups of BPEI was grafted with SA. The rifampicin (RIF)-loaded lipopolymer was also formulated further into spray-dried microparticles. Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) studies revealed that the RIF API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) exists as molecular dispersion in spray-dried microparticles. Topological analysis of the spray-dried nanomicelle was carried out using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). A large population of the drug-carrying particles were found to be under the inhalable size range (fine particle fraction 67.88% ± 3%). In vitro drug release kinetics from spray-dried nanomicelles were carried out at lung fluid pH. © 2013 Vadakkan et al, publisher and licensee Dove Medical Press Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2020.105588
Title:Development of solid lipid microparticles by melt-emulsification/spray-drying processes as carriers for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:J. IgnjatovićJ. ĐurišS. CvijićV. DobričićA. MontepietraC. LombardiS. IbrićA. Rossi
Absract:The aim of this study was to optimize the parameters of the complex melt-emulsification process coupled with the spray-drying, in order to maintain the balance between solid lipid microparticles (SLMs) powders aerodynamic performance and salbutamol sulfate release rate. Quality target product profile was identified and risk management and principal component analysis were used to guide formulation development. Obtained dry powders for inhalation (DPIs) were evaluated in terms of SLMs size distribution, morphology, true density, drug content, solid state characterization studies, in vitro aerosol performance and in vitro drug release. SLMs micrographs indicated spherical, porous particles. Selected powders showed satisfactory aerosol performance with a mean mass aerodynamic diameter of around 3 μm and acceptable fine particle fraction (FPF). Addition of trehalose positively affected SLMs aerodynamic properties. The results of in vitro dissolution testing indicated that salbutamol sulfate release from the tested SLMs formulations was modified, in comparison to the raw drug release. In conclusion, SLMs in a form of DPIs were successfully developed and numerous factors that affects SLMs properties were identified in this study. Further research is required for full understanding of each factor's influence on SLMs properties and optimization of DPIs with maximized FPFs.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2010.02.025
Title:A comparison between spray drying and spray freeze drying to produce an influenza subunit vaccine powder for inhalation
Authors:V. SalujaJ.-P. AmorijJ.C. KapteynA.H. de BoerH.W. FrijlinkW.L.J. Hinrichs
Absract:The aim of this study was to investigate two different processes to produce a stable influenza subunit vaccine powder for pulmonary immunization i.e. spray drying (SD) and spray freeze drying (SFD). The formulations were analyzed by proteolytic assay, single radial immunodiffusion assay (SRID), cascade impactor analysis, and immunization studies in Balb/c mice. Proteolytic assay and SRID analysis showed that antigen integrity after SFD was best conserved when the formulation was buffered by Hepes buffer saline (HBS). Surprisingly, antigen integrity after SD was better conserved when the formulation was buffered by phosphate buffer saline (PBS) rather than by HBS. The dispersion from the dry powder inhaler, the Twincer@sup_begin®@sup_end, resulted in a fine particle fraction (aerodynamic particle size <5μm) of 37% and 23% for spray dried and spray freeze dried powders, respectively. Immunogenicity of both vaccine formulations (SFD/HBS and SD/PBS) was similar to conventional liquid formulation after i.m. immunization. In addition, compared to i.m. immunizations, the pulmonary immunization with the dry powders resulted in significantly higher IgG titers. Furthermore, both the formulations remained biochemically and physically stable for at least 3years of storage at 20°C. Our results demonstrate that both optimized formulations are stable and have good inhalation characteristics. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(02)00349-6
Title:In vitro and in vivo dose delivery characteristics of large porous particles for inhalation
Authors:C. DunbarG. ScheuchK. SommererM. DeLongA. VermaR. Batycky
Absract:The purpose of this study was to evaluate the in vitro and in vivo dose delivery characteristics of two large porous particle placebo formulations with different mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMAD approximately equal to 3 and 5 μm). In vitro dose delivery characteristics were measured using the multistage liquid impinger (MSLI). In vitro lung deposition was predicted by calculating the extrathoracic deposition using the ICRP model, with the remaining fraction assumed to deposit in the lungs. Healthy subjects were trained to inhale through the AIR™ delivery system at a target peak inspiratory flow rate (PIFR) of 60 l/min, The in vivo dose delivery of large porous particles were obtained by γ-scintigraphy and was characterized by high (∼90%), reproducible emitted doses for both the small and large MMAD powders. The mean in vivo lung deposition relative to the total metered dose were 59.0 and 37.3% for 3 and 5 μm MMAD powders, respectively. The AIR™ delivery system produced high in vivo lung deposition and low intersubject CVs (approximately 14%) across the range of PIFRs obtained in the study (50-80 l/min), This is relative to a variety of dry powder inhalers (DPI) that have been published in the literature, with in vivo lung deposition ranging from 13 to 35% with intersubject CVs ranging from 17 to 50%. The ICRP model provided a good estimate of the mean in vivo lung deposition for both powders. Intersubject variability was not captured by the ICRP model due to intersubject differences in the morphology and physiology of the oropharyngeal region. The ICRP model was used to predict the regional lung deposition, although these predictions were only considered speculative in the absence of experimental validation. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:25022446
Title:Inhaled cyclosporine: Is it an alternative in the lung transplant? Stability of the hydroalcoholic solution
Authors:G. FloresB. PascualL. PouP. Sabin
Absract:A study on the stability of a hydroalcoholic solution 1:1 of cyclosporine, potentially useful to be administered by inhalation to ambulatory patients who underwent lung transplantation, was carried out. Results show this solution to be stable for one week, so it could be a great utility in this kind of patient. Administration of inhaled cyclosporine may be a good alternative to the parenteral way. It could achieve a local immunosuppressive action and appropriate plasmatic concentrations to avoid rejections in patients who undergo lung transplantion.

doi:10.1007/s11095-013-0997-4
Title:Inhalable powder formulation of pirfenidone with reduced phototoxic risk for treatment of pulmonary fibrosis
Authors:S. OnoueY. SetoM. KatoY. AokiY. KojoS. Yamada
Absract:Purpose: Orally-taken pirfenidone (PFD), an idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis drug, often causes severe phototoxicity. Present study aimed to develop a respirable powder formulation for PFD (PFD-RP) to minimize phototoxic risk. Methods: Photochemical properties of PFD were examined using a reactive oxygen species (ROS) assay and photostability testing. PFD-RP was characterized with a focus on photostability, in vitro inhalation performance, and the efficacy in antigen-sensitized rats. Pharmacokinetic studies were conducted after oral and intratracheal administration of PFD formulations. Results: Although PFD solution exhibited photodegradation under simulated sunlight (250 W/m@sup_begin2@sup_end), both PFD powder and PFD-RP were photochemically stable. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analyses on PFD-RP suggested its high dispersion and fine in vitro inhalation performance. Inhaled PFD-RP (300 μg-PFD/rat) could suppress antigen-evoked pulmonary inflammation in rats as evidenced by decreases in recruited inflammatory cells and neutrophilia-related biomarkers in the lung. Exposure of PFD to light-exposed tissues (skin and eye) after intratracheal administration of PFD-RP at a pharmacologically effective dose (300 μg-PFD/rat) was 90-130-fold less than that of the oral PFD dosage form at a phototoxic dose (160 mg/kg). Conclusions: PFD-RP might be an attractive alternative to the current oral PFD therapy with a better safety margin. © 2013 Springer Science+Business Media New York.

doi:10.1016/S0939-6411(02)00043-7
Title:Dry powder inhalation of antibiotics in cystic fibrosis therapy, part 1: Development of a powder formulation with colistin sulfate for a special test inhaler with an air classifier as de-agglomeration principle
Authors:A.H De BoerP.P.H Le BrunH.G Van der WoudeP. HagedoornH.G.M HeijermanH.W Frijlink
Absract:The aim of this study was to investigate the pulmonary administration of antibiotics as dry powder to patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), as an alternative for nebulization. This part of the study describes the development of a powder formulation with colistin sulfate as model substance. The aim of the new dosage form was to increase pulmonary deposition, therapeutic efficiency and, by that, compliance by the CF patients. A physical powder mixture of colistin and a size fraction of lactose (106-150 μm) was prepared and the mixture was optimized with respect to colistin content (83.3%) for use in a special test inhaler. A laser diffraction apparatus with special inhaler adapter was applied for analysis of the size distribution of the aerosol cloud from the inhaler. The size distributions of the aerosol clouds from the test inhaler at flow rates between 30 and 60 l/min for the optimized formulation showed nearly the same median diameter as that for the primary drug particles. But the X@sub_begin100@sub_end-value was much lower, because of an effective large particle separation from the inspiratory air by an air classifier in the test inhaler. The results suggest that dry powder inhalation might be a suitable and highly efficient alternative for nebulization of antibiotic drugs in CF therapy. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1155/2017/2924171
Title:Ethnopharmacological Evaluation of Breu Essential Oils from Protium Species Administered by Inhalation
Authors:E.R. Da SilvaD.R.D. OliveiraP.D. FernandesH.R. BizzoS.G. Leitaõ
Absract:Background. Breu is an aromatic oleoresin which has been used by Amazonian traditional communities as a remedy for headaches and migraines by burning and inhaling the smoke produced during its combustion. This study evaluated the antinociceptive and sedative activities of formulations containing breu essential oils administered by inhalation. Methods. Five different formulations (A-E) containing breu essential oils were evaluated for their sedative and antinociceptive activities in mice. They were delivered for 20 minutes using an inhalation chamber coupled with a nebulizer and the air inside was collected by static headspace and analyzed by GC-FID. Results. All nebulized formulations had similar chemical compositions and major compounds as the original essential oils. None of them resulted in significant increase in response time during the hot plate test. In the formalin test, Formulation E showed a significant inhibition of licking responses in the early (46.8%) and late (60.2%) phases. Formulation B was effective (36.9%) in the first phase and Formulation D (37.9%) in the second. None of the formulations presented sedative effects. Conclusion. Breu essential oils, when inhaled, may present antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory properties without sedation. Additionally, nebulization proved to be an efficient method for administration of formulations containing these essential oils.

doi:10.1185/030079907X233106
Title:Compatibility of arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution with three nebulized drugs
Authors:P. BonasiaC. CookY. ChengS. Ong
Absract:Objective: Arformoterol tartrate inhalation solution (15 μg/2mL) is approved for the twice-daily, long-term maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD). This study assessed the chemical and physical compatibility of arformoterol (15 μg/2mL) with ipratropium bromide (0.5 μg/2.5 mL), acetylcysteine (800 mg/4 mL), and budesonide (0.25 mg/2mL and 0.5 mg/2mL). Methods: Immediately (T@sub_begin0@sub_end) and 30 min (T@sub_begin30@sub_end) after preparation, the admixtures were tested by visual inspection, pH measurement, and HPLC assay of each active component. Results: For all admixtures, no visible signs of change were observed. The pH of all admixtures at T@sub_begin0@sub_end ranged from 4.82 to 6.40, which was within the range of individual drugs. For all admixtures, no unacceptable changes (less than 1% or 0.1 pH unit) in the pH values were observed within 30 min compared with the initial pH values in the admixtures, which met acceptance criteria of not more than (NMT) 10.0%. At both T@sub_begin0@sub_end and T@sub_begin30@sub_end, the assay of each active component in all admixtures ranged from 98.3% to 101.4% compared to the assay in control samples, which met acceptance criteria of NMT 10.0%. In addition, no changes (less than 8%) in the assay of each active component at T@sub_begin30@sub_end were observed compared to the initial assay values, which met acceptance criteria of NMT 10.0%. This study did not evaluate the clinical efficacy or safety of mixing arformoterol in patients. Nor did the study assess the aerosol characteristics of these admixtures or any potential changes in drug output. Conclusion: The results demonstrated that arformoterol was chemically and physically compatible with commercially available nebulized formulations of ipratropium bromide, acetylcysteine, and budesonide. © 2007 Librapharm Limited.

doi:10.1089/jir.2014.0231
Title:Effect of inhaled interferon beta-1a on carbon monoxide transfer factor in healthy volunteers
Authors:V. NorrisS. WarringtonM. Boyce
Absract:Interferon beta-1a (IFNβ-1a) 30 μg weekly by intramuscular (IM) injection is used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. We assessed if it can be given safely by inhalation. Twenty-one healthy volunteers inhaled IFNβ-1a 300 μg, formulated for deep delivery to the lungs, in a randomized, parallel-group, repeat-dose trial. Comparators were room air and placebo. The primary outcome measure was carbon monoxide transfer factor corrected for hemoglobin (TLCOc), which measures the CO transfer from inspired gas to pulmonary capillary blood. After 3 and 4 once-weekly doses, IFNβ-1a significantly reduced TLCOc compared with room air: after the third dose, mean standard deviation (SD) change in percent predicted TLCOc was-10.9 (2.8), and after the fourth dose was-12.1 (2.7). After 2, 3, and 4 doses, IFNβ-1a significantly reduced TLCOc compared with placebo: after the second dose, mean (SD) change in percent predicted TLCOc was-8.8 (5.5), after the third dose was-10.9 (2.8), and after the fourth dose was-12.1 (2.7). Circulating IFNβ-1a concentrations were about one-third those of the intramuscular dose regimen. Tolerability of IFNβ-1a and the comparators was equally good. In conclusion, IFNβ-1a reduced TLCOc, whereas placebo and room air did not. A dose of IFNβ-1a 300 μg by inhalation may not be safe for general use.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.2012.01488.x
Title:Spray drying from organic solvents to prepare nanoporous/nanoparticulate microparticles of protein: Excipient composites designed for oral inhalation
Authors:O. NíÓgáinL. TajberO.I. CorriganA.M. Healy
Absract:Objectives The aim of this study was to determine if spray-drying could successfully produce microparticles containing the model protein trypsin in a form suitable for inhalation. Methods Trypsin was spray-dried with raffinose from a methanol: n-butyl acetate solvent system (MeOH: BA). The solvent system was then adjusted to include water, and trypsin was co-spray-dried with raffinose, trehalose or hydroxpropyl-β-cyclodextrin. The spray-dried products were characterised by SEM, XRD, DSC, TGA and FTIR. Protein biological activity and in-vitro deposition of trypsin: excipient nanoporous/ nanoparticulate microparticles (NPMPs) was also assessed. Key findings The inclusion of water in a MeOH: BA solvent system allowed for the successful production of NPMPs of trypsin: excipient by spray-drying. Trypsin formulated as trypsin: excipient NPMPs retained biological activity on processing and showed no deterioration in activity or morphological characteristics when stored with desiccant at either 4 or 25°C. Hydroxpropyl-β-cyclodextrin showed advantages over the sugars in terms of producing powders with appropriate density and with greater physical stability under high-humidity conditions. Fine particle fractions of between 41 and 45% were determined for trypsin: excipient NPMPs. Conclusions NPMPs of trypsin: excipient systems can be produced by spray-drying by adjustment of the solvent system to allow for adequate solubility of trypsin. © 2012 The Authors. JPP © 2012 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

pui:25127236
Title:Pulmonary absorption of peptides and proteins
Authors:D.A. Wall
Absract:Pulmonary delivery provides a promising route for absorption of peptides and proteins having poor oral bioavailability due to inefficient transport across the gastrointestinal epithelium or high levels of first-pass hepatic clearance. Efficient absorption after inhalation has been demonstrated for compounds varying substantially in size and other physicochemical characteristics. However, understanding of the relationship of structure to absorption efficiency is incomplete. Limited data regarding mechanisms of permeation across respiratory epithelium suggest passive transport of small peptides, with a contribution from vesicle-mediated transcytosis in the relatively slow transport of large proteins such as albumin and peroxidase. Lack of absorption of some peptides is most likely due to their susceptibility to protease degradation, since high levels of some exopeptidases are present in lung tissue. Effects of chronic exposure to potentially antigenic molecules delivered to the lung will need to be assessed on a case by case basis before the potential for pulmonary peptide delivery can be determined. Formulation/device development for proteins is in early stages: the susceptibility of many proteins to denaturation and oxidation presents special difficulties in small particle aerosol generation. The relative inefficiency and volume limitations of inhalation delivery currently limit this approach to molecules of relatively high potency. More widespread exploitation of pulmonary polypeptide delivery will depend on successful development of reproducible dry powder systems allowing inhalation of a greater amount of drug.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12121154
Title:Development of high dose oseltamivir phosphate dry powder for inhalation therapy in viral pneumonia
Authors:S. AzizR. ScherlieβH. Steckel
Absract:Oseltamivir phosphate (OP) is an antiviral drug available only as oral therapy for the treatment of influenza and as a potential treatment option when in combination with other medication in the fight against the corona virus disease (COVID-19) pneumonia. In this study, OP was formulated as a dry powder for inhalation, which allows drug targeting to the site of action and potentially reduces the dose, aiming a more efficient therapy. Binary formulations were based on micronized excipient particles acting like diluents, which were blended with the drug OP. Different excipient types, excipient ratios, and excipient size distributions were prepared and examined. To investigate the feasibility of delivering high doses of OP in a single dose, 1:1, 1:3, and 3:1 drug/diluent blending ratios have been prepared. Subsequently, the aerosolization performance was evaluated for all prepared formulations by cascade impaction using a novel medium-resistance capsule-based inhaler (UNI-Haler). Formulations with micronized trehalose showed relatively excellent aerosolization performance with highest fine-particle doses in comparison to examined lactose, mannitol, and glucose under similar conditions. Focusing on the trehalose-based dry-powder inhalers’ (DPIs) formulations, a physicochemical characterization of extra micronized grade trehalose in relation to the achieved performance in dispersing OP was performed. Additionally, an early indication of inhaled OP safety on lung cells was noted by the viability MTT assay utilizing Calu-3 cells.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2017.1313858
Title:A review of co-milling techniques for the production of high dose dry powder inhaler formulation
Authors:M. LauP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Drug delivery by inhalation offers several advantages compared to other dosage forms, including rapid clinical onset, high bioavailability, and minimal systemic side effects. Drug delivery to the lung can be achieved as liquid suspensions or solutions in nebulizers and pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDI), or as dry powders in dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Compared to other delivery systems, DPIs are, in many cases, considered the most convenient as they are breath actuated and do not require the use of propellants. Currently, the delivery of low drug doses for the treatment of lung conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are well established, with numerous commercial products available on the market. The delivery of low doses can be achieved from either standard carrier- or aggregate-based formulations, which are unsuitable in the delivery of high doses due to particle segregation associated with carrier active site saturation and the cohesiveness of micronized aggregates which have poor flow and de-agglomeration properties. High-dose delivery is required for the treatment of lung infection (i.e. antibiotics) and in the emerging application of drug delivery for the management of systemic conditions (i.e. diabetes). Therefore, there is a demand for new methods for production of high-dose dry powder formulations. This paper presents a review of co-mill processing, for the production of high-efficiency inhalation therapies, including the jet mill, mechanofusion, or ball mill methodologies. We investigate the different techniques, additives, and drugs studied, and impact on performance in DPI systems.

pui:14222156
Title:A comparison of fenoterol powder capsules and fenoterol metered dose spray in bronchial asthma
Authors:N.P. BoyeS. Kornstad
Absract:In the present investigation the effect of fenoterol powder for inhalation has been compared to that of fenoterol spray in 20 adult patients with reversible obstructive lung disease. No difference could be demonstrated between the two forms of the drug in a randomized cross-over study. Neither was it possible to demonstrate any difference between the two preparations following the use of the drug at home over a minimum of four days, with regard to daily PEF registration and symptom scores. Nine of the patients preferred spray, six powder.

doi:10.1517/17425247.4.6.607
Title:The nanoscale in pulmonary delivery. Part 2: Formulation platforms
Authors:P.G.A. RoguedaD. Traini
Absract:This article is the second part of a review on the nanoscale in pulmonary drug delivery. Specifically it summarises and analyses the potential of the different inhalation delivery routes: nebulisers, dry powder inhalers, pressurised metered-dose inhalers, for the delivery of nanoparticles or nanodroplets. Few products and experimental studies have managed to fully exploit the nanoscale in inhalation delivery, although some may unknowingly benefit from it. Nebulisers are the most advanced in using the nanoscale, pressurised metered-dose inhalers require further developments to realise its full potential, and dry powder inhalers are specifically in need of a dry solid nanoparticle generation technique to make it a reality. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1111/all.14506
Title:An inhaled formulation of IGFBP-3 attenuates endoplasmic reticulum stress and severe neutrophilic asthmatic manifestations in mice
Authors:S.R. KimY.C. LeeH.J. ParkK.H. Park
Absract:Background : The inhalation is one of the routes for the delivery of various medicines to the body. Specifically, small synthetic moleculebased inhaled therapies are commonly prescribed for chronic airway disorders such as asthma and COPD. However, the small molecules are often extremely durable; thus, they can have side effects inother organs until metabolized by the liver or cleared by the kidney. In the case of many peptides/proteins, failure to cross the respiratory epithelium after inhalation delivery may be beneficial because it increases the ratio of the lung to systemic bioavailability and thus reduces the systemic side effects. Insulin- like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP- 3) blocks critical physiologic manifestations of asthma. This study aimed to evaluate the role of inhaled IGFBP- 3 on severe neutrophilic asthma and the interaction with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Method : For the steroid- resistant neutrophilic asthma animal model, the mice sensitized with OVA and LPS and then challenged with OVA (OVA@sub_beginLPS-@sub_end OVA mice) mice were used. The recombinant human IGFBP- 3 was administered into each animal intratracheally. Results : The results have shown that OVA@sub_beginLPS-@sub_end OVA mice exhibited the typical features of steroid- resistant neutrophilic asthma. Interestingly, intratracheal administration of recombinant human IGFBP- 3 substantially attenuated the increases in the expression of ER stress markers, the pro- inflammatory cytokines, airway inflammation, and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. The administration of 4- PBA also reduced all increased parameters significantly in the lung of OVA@sub_beginLPS-@sub_end OVA mice. Conclusion : These findings suggest that the pharmacological effects of the inhaled IGFBP- 3 on the neutrophilic asthmatic features are via the modulation of ER stress in the lung, providing the novel therapeutic target for severe non- type 2 asthma.

doi:10.1002/ppul.24901
Title:Hyaluronic Acid for the Treatment of Airway Diseases in Children: Little Evidence for Few Indications
Authors:M. Di CiccoD. PeroniM. SepichM.G. TozziP. ComberiatiR. Cutrera
Absract:BACKGROUND: Hyaluronic acid (HA) is major physiological component of the extracellular matrix, which, in its high molecular weight form (HMW-HA) has anti-inflammatory properties. The diffusion of many different medical devices for inhalation therapy containing HA has led to an increase in their prescription, also in children. Here we systematically review the published evidence on the efficacy and safety of HA for the treatment of upper and lower airway diseases in childhood. METHODS: Relevant published studies (randomized controlled trials) for the efficacy of hyaluronic acid inhalation in children with upper airways diseases, asthma, cystic fibrosis and non-CF bronchiectasis were searched in Pubmed, Scopus and Web of Knowledge databases by combining the adequate Medical Subject Headings terms and keywords, with no limit for the year of publication. RESULTS: We identified 7 relevant publications for upper airways diseases, 1 for asthma and 5 for cystic fibrosis, while we found no clinical trial including children with non-CF bronchiectasis. Meta-analysis was not conducted due to the heterogeneity of the included studies. CONCLUSIONS: The evidence of HA efficacy in the treatment of the upper and lower airways is still limited in children. Available data suggest that inhaled HMW-HA could be useful in the treatment of recurrent upper respiratory infections and chronic or recurrent inflammation of the middle ear and adenoids as well as of the lower airways in cystic fibrosis in association with hypertonic saline solution. Studies on larger populations and on the different formulations and nebulization methods, especially in pediatric age, are urgently needed. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.12.002
Title:Engineered sodium hyaluronate respirable dry powders for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:F. MartinelliA.G. BalducciA. KumarF. SonvicoB. ForbesR. BettiniF. Buttini
Absract:Sodium hyaluronate (HYA) warrants attention as a material for inhalation due to its (i) therapeutic potential, (ii) utility as a formulation excipient or drug carrier, and (iii) ability to target lung inflammation and cancer. This study aimed to overcome formulation and manufacturing impediments to engineer biocompatible spray-dried HYA powders for inhalation. Novel methodology was developed to produce HYA microparticles by spray drying. Different types of surfactant were included in the formulation to improve powder respirability, which was evaluated in vitro using cascade impactors. The individual formulation components and formulated products were evaluated for their biocompatibility with A549 respiratory epithelial cells. The inclusion of stearyl surfactants, 5% w/v, produced the most respirable HYA-powders; FPF 59.0–66.3%. A trend to marginally higher respirability was observed for powders containing stearylamine > stearyl alcohol > cetostearyl alcohol. Pure HYA was biocompatible with A549 cells at all concentrations measured, but the biocompatibility of the stearyl surfactants (based on lethal concentration 50%; LC@sub_begin50@sub_end) in the MTT assay ranked stearyl alcohol > cetostearyl alcohol > stearylamine with LC@sub_begin50@sub_end of 24.7, 13.2 and 1.8 μg/mL, respectively. We report the first respirable HYA powders produced by spray-drying. A lead formulation containing 5% stearyl alcohol was identified for further studies aimed at translating the proposed benefits of inhaled HYA into safe and clinically effective HYA products.

doi:10.1586/17476348.2013.847369
Title:Aerosol therapy in children: Challenges and solutions
Authors:A. AriJ.B. Fink
Absract:Using aerosolized medications for the treatment of children has gained importance over the years. However, aerosol drug delivery to infants and pediatrics is not an easy task as it has been influenced by many challenges. Most aerosol devices have been designed for use in adults not for children. Therefore, they require some critical assessment in device selection and often a level of adaptation for use with smaller children. It is well documented that each aerosol device and interface that have been used for the treatment of children has its own advantages and challenges in drug delivery. This paper provides a comprehensive review of dosing, drug-device combination, aerosol devices and interfaces used for drug delivery to children with pulmonary diseases. Solutions to the challenges with the aim of optimizing aerosol therapy in this patient population are also discussed. © 2013 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2006.01.026
Title:Dehydration of trehalose dihydrate at low relative humidity and ambient temperature
Authors:M.D. JonesJ.C. HootonM.L. DawsonA.R. FerrieR. Price
Absract:The physico-chemical behaviour of trehalose dihydrate during storage at low relative humidity and ambient temperature was investigated, using a combination of techniques commonly employed in pharmaceutical research. Weight loss, water content determinations, differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray powder diffraction showed that at low relative humidity (0.1% RH) and ambient temperature (25 °C) trehalose dihydrate dehydrates forming the α-polymorph. Physical examination of trehalose particles by scanning electron microscopy and of the dominant growth faces of trehalose crystals by environmentally controlled atomic force microscopy revealed significant changes in surface morphology upon partial dehydration, in particular the formation of cracks. These changes were not fully reversible upon complete rehydration at 50% RH. These findings should be considered when trehalose dihydrate is used as a pharmaceutical excipient in situations where surface properties are key to behaviour, for example as a carrier in a dry powder inhalation formulations, as morphological changes under common processing or storage conditions may lead to variations in formulation performance. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:39602011
Title:Influence of formulation variables and inhalation device on the deposition profiles of cromolyn sodium dry powder aerosols
Authors:K. GilaniA.R. NajafabadiM. DarabiM. BarghiM. Rafiee-Tehrani
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) have attained considerable attention due to their propellant-free formulations and the patient's inherent coordination with actuation. Generally, DPI formulations consist of a micronized drug alone or mixed with carrier particles. This study was carried out to investigate the effects of carrier particle size and weight fraction on aerosolisation behaviour of cromolyn sodium (CS). Pharmatose® 450M and Pharmatose® 325M, two commercial α-lactose monohydrate with different particle sizes, were blended in two different fractions (30 and 50% w/w) with CS. A low resistance device (Spinhaler®) and a medium resistance device (Cyclohaler®), were used to evaluate the effect of inhaler design on the deposition profiles of CS. The in vitro deposition of the formulations was determined using a twin stage impinger (TSI). Fine particle dose, fine particle fraction and emitted dose of the drug were depended to both formulation and inhalation devices. Fine particle fractions of the drug aerosolised from the formulations ranged from 9.35 up to 36.45%. The highest fine particle fraction was produced by formulation containing 50% Pharmatose® 450M as carrier. Cyclohaler® showed higher efficiency in aerosolisation of CS compared to Spinhaler®.

doi:10.1021/js980081l
Title:Water vapor sorption studies on the physical stability of a series of spray-dried protein/sugar powders for inhalation
Authors:R.T. Forbes
Absract:One theory suggests that by maintaining the protein in an amorphous glassy sugar matrix, the physical hindrance encountered by the protein functions to stabilize it. Thus, the nature of the sugar/protein interaction is important as is the maintenance of the sugar in an amorphous form without any recrystallization. Moisture is known to function as a plasticizer and facilitate crystallization and thus loss of the amorphous state. We report the effect of cospray-drying with different proteins on the physical stability of lactose and mannitol. Particle sizing showed their suitability for inhalation, and the effect of exposure of the spray-dried products to moisture vapor was monitored gravimetrically. Bovine liver catalase, bovine pancreatic insulin, and bovine pancreatic ribonuclease A when individually cospray-dried with lactose showed no extensive initial crystallinity by powder X-ray diffraction, but proteins cospray-dried with mannitol generally showed evidence of mannitol component crystallinity. Catalase appeared to inhibit lactose crystallization from an amorphous matrix to a greater extent than insulin when exposed to short-term elevated humidity, but this difference was a kinetic feature. The hygroscopicities of the cospray-dried materials differed and indicated that each protein/sugar system required individual characterization to identify an optimal formulation.

pui:19047161
Title:Comparison of a lactose-free formulation of sodium cromoglycate and sodium cromoglycate plus lactose in the treatment of asthma
Authors:A.M. EdwardsA. Chambers
Absract:A double-blind, parallel group, 7-centre trial was carried out to compare the clinical efficacy and patient acceptability of two formulations of sodium cromoglycate for inhalation in patients suffering from asthma. Each single-dose capsule for use in a breath-actuated inhaler contained either a blend of sodium cromoglycate (20 mg) plus lactose (20 mg) or a lactose-free pelletized formulation of sodium cromoglycate (20 mg). Data were summarized from 529 asthmatic patients who had been using the blend formulation for at least 3 months previously. Two hundred and sixty-five patients then received pelletized sodium cromoglycate and 264 patients remained on sodium cromoglycate plus lactose for at least 3 months. Regular assessments were made by patients and clinicians during the trial period of treatment effictiveness. No clinically significant differences were observed between the two formulations after 3 months on test treatment. After a treatment period of 6 months, the pelletized fomulation was shown to have some advantages over the blend formulation which were not observed at 3 months, with a significantly higher proportion of 'very effective' assessments being recorded by both patients and clinicians. The capsules of pelletized sodium cromoglycate required significantly less inhalations to empty compared to the capsules of the blend. No differences were observed between the two formulations with regard to the incidence of transient cough and throat irritation after inhalation.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2018.04.003
Title:Development and characterization of high payload combination dry powders of anti-tubercular drugs for treating pulmonary tuberculosis
Authors:B.B. EedaraB. RangnekarS. SinhaC. DoyleA. CavallaroS.C. Das
Absract:This study aimed to develop a high payload dry powder inhalation formulation containing a combination of the first line anti-tubercular drug, pyrazinamide, and the second line drug, moxifloxacin HCl. Individual powders of pyrazinamide (P@sub_beginSD@sub_end) and moxifloxacin (M@sub_beginSD@sub_end) and combination powders of the two drugs without (PM) and with 10% L-leucine (PML) and 10% DPPC (PMLD) were produced by spray drying. P@sub_beginSD@sub_end contained >10 μm crystalline particles and showed poor aerosolization behaviour with a fine particle fraction (FPF) of 18.7 ± 3.4%. PM produced spherical hollow particles with aerodynamic diameter < 5 μm and PML showed improved aerosolization with a high FPF of ~70%. However, PMLD showed a significantly reduced FPF (p > 0.05) compared to PML. Solid state studies and surface elemental analysis by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry confirmed the surface coating of particles contained amorphous moxifloxacin and both L-leucine and DPPC over crystalline pyrazinamide. Furthermore, pyrazinamide, moxifloxacin, PML and PMLD were found to display low toxicity to both A549 and Calu-3 cell lines even at a concentration of 100 μg/mL. In conclusion, a combination powder formulation of PML has the potential to deliver a high drug dose to the site of infection resulting in efficient treatment.

doi:10.4155/tde-2021-0027
Title:Novel approach for attenuation of pirfenidone-induced digestive symptoms: A respirable powder formulation of pirfenidone
Authors:Y. SetoG. SuzukiA. AokiY. KanekoM. KatoH. SatoS. Onoue
Absract:Aim: Orally taken pirfenidone (PFD) often causes digestive symptoms. A respirable powder formulation of PFD (PFD-RP) was previously developed, and this study aimed to verify the risk of digestive symptoms after insufflation of PFD-RP. Materials & methods: Intestinal motility and gastrointestinal exposure levels was evaluated in PFD-RP (0.3-mg PFD/rat: a pharmacologically effective dose) and orally taken PFD (10-100 mg/kg) groups. Results & conclusion: Orally taken PFD at doses above 30 mg/kg significantly inhibited intestinal motility. In contrast, insufflated PFD-RP led to comparable intestinal motility in control group, and gastrointestinal exposure levels in PFD-RP group were markedly lower than those in orally taken PFD groups. Inhalation therapy using PFD-RP may be efficacious to reduce the risk of digestive symptoms frequently induced by orally taken PFD.

doi:10.2174/1568026616666160215154938
Title:Advancements in devices and particle engineering in dry powder inhalation technology
Authors:M.V. VadakkanG.S. Vinod Kumar
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPI) attracted the attention of pharmaceutical field due to its enlarging market share in inhalable formulations. These formulations also pose patient compliance and good shelf life. Earlier DPI formulations were intended for local effect in lung (asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases), whereas 21@sup_beginst@sup_end century witnessed formulations intended for systemic effect too. A better understanding of physiology of lung and fluidics of air flow helped in targeting alveoli using DPI technology. Modern characterization tools also accelerated the research pace. In addition to the synthetic molecules, DPI also was proved to be a better system for delivering biological molecules including vaccines. This review includes the mechanisms of drug deposition, advancements in the fields of DPI devices, various characterization tools and particle engineering. In this review we have related the chronological advancement of inhalational technology starting from 1788 AD to the present.

doi:10.1089/0894268041457219
Title:The development of a novel high-dose pressurized aerosol dry-powder device (PADD) for the delivery of pumactant for inhalation therapy
Authors:P.M. YoungJ. ThompsonD. WoodcockM. AydinR. Price
Absract:The performance of a novel dry powder inhaler designed to deliver exceptionally high doses was investigated using pumactant as a model powder. Pumactant (a synthetic lung surfactant consisting of a phospholipid mixture), with a 90th percentile particle size of 2.92μm is highly cohesive, has a high moisture affinity (6.2% w/w at 45% RH), and is predominately amorphous. The device (pressurized aerosol dry-powder delivery [PADD]) utilizes pressurized gas to aerosolize a powder bed from a reservoir and delivers it through a conventional mouthpiece. The influence of loaded dose on dry powder delivery and can pressure on aerosolization efficiency was investigated. Analysis of the delivered dose studies suggested a linear relationship between loaded dose and delivered dose (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.96, for loaded doses of 0-250 mg), with a delivery efficiency of 70%. Analysis of the aerosolization efficiency using a Marple Miller type impactor suggested fine particle fractions (particles with an aerodynamic diameter of <5 μm) of approximately 30% using canister pressures of 8-14 bars. These results indicate that the PADD device may be a useful tool in delivering high-dose medicaments, as a carrier-free formulation, to the deep lung.

pui:32321965
Title:Intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate in the treatment of common cold
Authors:Y. QvarnbergH. ValtonenK. Laurikainen
Absract:Sinusitis is usually considered a complication of viral rhinitis. Virus infections in the upper respiratory tract lead to mucosal swelling, which may obstruct paranasal sinus outflow, resulting in infection in the paranasal sinuses. Topical nasal steroids have been found beneficial in a variety of acute and chronic nasal conditions including allergic and nonallergic rhinitis and chronic rhinosinusitis. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the intranasal inhalation powder beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) 400 μg/day treatment has a beneficial or harmful effect on symptoms and signs of common cold, and whether or not it can prevent common cold complications. A total of 54 patients were randomized, 26 into the placebo-group and 28 into the BDP group. During the 14-day follow-up, there were on an average 10.3 symptomatic days in the placebo group and 10.7 days in the BDP group (p=0.72). The use of intranasal BDP in the treatment of common cold neither reduced symptoms caused by inflammation nor did it shorten the recovery time. On the other hand, because BDP does not increase the risk of complications or significantly prolong the recovery during the common cold, there is no need to discontinue its use in the patients with allergic rhinitis or nasal polyposis.

doi:10.1208/s12249-010-9397-9
Title:Development of a new method to get a reliable powder flow characteristics using only 1 to 2 g of powder
Authors:K. SeppäläJ. HeinämäkiJ. HataraL. SeppäläJ. Yliruusi
Absract:In powder technology, it is often important to directly measure real powder flow rate from a small amount of powder. For example, in pharmaceutical industry, a frequent problem is to determine powder flow properties of new active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in an early stage of the development when the amount of API is limited. The purpose of this paper is to introduce a new direct method to measure powder flow when the material is poorly flowing (cohesive) and the amount of material is about 1 to 2 g. The measuring system was simple, consisting of a flow chamber and electronic balance and an automated optical detection system, and for each measurement, only 1 to 2 g of sample was required. Based on the results obtained with this testing method, three selected sugar excipients, three grades of microcrystalline cellulose, and APIs (caffeine, carbamazepine, and paracetamol) can be classified as freely flowing, intermediate flowing, and poorly flowing powders, respectively. The average relative standard deviation for the flow time determinations was not more than 2-10%. The present novel flowability testing method provides a new tool for a rapid determination of flowing characteristics of powders (e.g., inhalation powders) and granules at a small scale. © 2010 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1023/A:1018998028490
Title:Characterization of aerosols of human recombinant deoxyribonuclease I (rhDNase) generated by jet nebulizers
Authors:D. CipollaI. GondaS.J. Shire
Absract:Recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I (rhDNase) is a new therapeutic agent developed to improve clearance of purulent sputum from the human airways. It is delivered by inhalation. Four jet nebulizers, T Up-Draft II (Hudson), Customized Respirgard II (Marquest), Acorn II (Marquest), and Airlife Misty (Baxter), were evaluated in vitro for their ability to deliver aerosols of rhDNase. The aerosols were generated from 2.5-mL aqueous solutions of rhDNase, at concentrations of either 1 or 4 mg/mL. In all experiments, the Pulmo-Aide Compressor (De Vilbiss) was used to supply de the air to the nebulizers. Between 20 and 28% of the rhDNase dose initially placed in the nebulizers was delivered to the mouthpiece in the respirable range (1-6 μm). Evaluation of the rhDNase following nebulization in all four devices indicated that there was no loss in enzymatic activity and no increase in aggregation. Circular dichroism spectrophotometry indicated there was no change in either the secondary or the tertiary structure in rhDNase following nebulization. These results show that all four nebulizers are essentially equivalent in their ability to deliver respirable doses of rhDNase in an intact, fully active form. Changing the concentration of the solution in the nebulizer from 4 to 1 mg/mL rhDNase leads to a proportional reduction in the respirable dose delivered to the mouthpiece.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(96)04526-7
Title:Inhalation characteristics and their effects on in vitro drug delivery front dry powder inhalers Part 2: Effect of peak flow rate (PIFR) and inspiration time on the in vitro drug release from three different types of commercial dry powder inhalers
Authors:A.H. De BoerD. GjaltemaP. Hagedoorn
Absract:Three commercial dry powder inhalers with completely different dosing and powder disintegration principles were evaluated in an in vitro deposition study. A four-stage cascade impactor was used for the range of flow rates between 20 and 60 1/min. Turbuhaler, Diskhaler and Spinhaler showed increasing amounts of drug discharged from the dose system with increasing peak inspiratory flow rate (PIFR). only for the Spinhaler, was discharge influenced by total inspiration time as well. All three inhalers also showed improved powder disintegration with increasing PIFR. Highest fine particle yield was obtained from the Turbuhaler, reaching a maximum of 35-40% of the nominal dose at flow rates of 50-60 1/min. In comparison, less than 10% of the nominal dose from the Spinhaler and on average 23% from the Diskhaler were released as fine drug particles at 60 1/min. From the work of inspiration involved, it has been concluded that a short and fast inspiration through the Turbuhaler gives an optimal result from fine particle output and from efficiency point of view.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.08.009
Title:Inhalation of nanoparticle-based drug for lung cancer treatment: Advantages and challenges
Authors:W.-H. LeeC.-Y. LooD. TrainiP.M. Young
Absract:Ever since the success of developing inhalable insulin, drug delivery via pulmonary administration has become an attractive route to treat chronic diseases. Pulmonary delivery system for nanotechnology is a relatively new concept especially when applicable to lung cancer therapy. Nano-based systems such as liposome, polymeric nanoparticles or micelles are strategically designed to enhance the therapeutic index of anti-cancer drugs through improvement of their bioavailability, stability and residency at targeted lung regions. Along with these benefits, nano-based systems also provide additional diagnostic advantages during lung cancer treatment, including imaging, screening and drug tracking. Nevertheless, delivery of nano-based drugs via pulmonary administration for lung cancer therapy is still in its infancy and numerous challenges are expected. Pharmacology, immunology, toxicology and large-scale manufacturing (stability and activity of drugs) are some aspects in nanotechnology that should be taken into consideration for the development of inhalable nano-based chemotherapeutic drugs. This review will focus on the current inhalable nano-based drugs for lung cancer treatment.

pui:35230855
Title:Bioequivalent evaluation of two salbutamol aerosols by pharmacokinetic method sampling over 20 minutes
Authors:X.-L. DuZ. ZhuQ. FuD.-K. Li
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the bioequivalence of two salbutamol aerosols in healthy subjects using a special pharmacokinetic method. METHODS: A randomized, two - way crossover, open design was adopted. 18 healthy male subjects were enrolled. Single doses of 1200 μg salbutamol as generic salbutamol aerosol (12 × 100 μg) and Ventolin (12 × 100 μg) were administered over 6 min. Mouth rinsing was performed after every inhalation. Blood samples were taken before administration and at 5, 10, 15 and 20 min after inhalation. The concentrations of salbutamol in plasma were determined by HPLC assay. The AUC@sub_begin0∼20 min@sub_end and c@sub_beginmax@sub_end were evaluated by analysis of variance and two one-sided t-test. RESULTS: The parameters of the reference and test salbutamol aerosols were AUC@sub_begin0∼20 min@sub_end (0.71±0.32) and (0.46±0.27) ng·h·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end, c@sub_beginmax@sub_end(2.97±1.38) and (1.91±1.18) ng·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end, t@sub_beginmax@sub_end(0.21± 0.07) and (0.19±0.09) h, respectively. The relative bioavailability of the test salbutamol aerosol was 58.4 %. The results of two one-sided t test were as following: T(H)@sub_beginAUC@sub_end = 6.79, T(L)@sub_beginAUC@sub_end = -2.81, T(H)@sub_begincmax@sub_end = 7.16, T(L)@sub_begincmax@sub_end = -1.32. CONCLUSION: The two formulations were not bioequivalent.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2021.05.081
Title:Effect of carrier size and mechanical properties on adhesive unit stability for inhalation: A numerical study
Authors:S. SarangiK. ThalbergG. Frenning
Absract:The Discrete Element Method (DEM) was used to investigate the micromechanics of adhesive units, the building blocks of adhesive mixtures, comprising a carrier particle with attached micronised fine particles. Binary head-on collisions between adhesive units was performed in the handling and dispersion velocity regimes, with variations in carrier mechanical properties (mannitol or lactose) and size (50, 100, 200 μm). The system was modeled with spherical particles with interactions represented by Hertz-Mindlin and Johnson-Kendall-Roberts contact models. The results were analysed in terms of stability ratios (retention, loss and transfer) and mechanical properties (restitution coefficient). It was observed that mannitol particles are more stable than lactose with similar dispersion performance and that the 200 μm carrier is the most stable among the particles investigated. The results provide a parametric knowledge about the performance of carrier particles and could be used for development of macro models for particle engineering and optimization of formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.02.009
Title:Modeling dispersion of dry powders for inhalation. the concepts of total fines, cohesive energy and interaction parameters
Authors:K. ThalbergE. BergM. Fransson
Absract:A range of carrier based dry powder formulations consisting of micronized drug, carrier lactose and, in some formulations, lactose fines were produced and tested for dispersibility, i.e. fine particle fraction (FPF). Two different drugs were used, budesonide (BUD) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP). A model based on the total amount of fines (TF) and the cohesive energy (CE) of the formulation is proposed, where TF is the sum of added drug, lactose fines and the fines inherent to the carrier. The expression for CE is derived from regular solutions theory and allows calculation of interparticle interaction parameters. The model was able to describe experimental data well, such as the decrease in FPF when the proportion of drug is increased at a constant TF level and the non-linear effects seen when a cohesive drug is added to carrier. BDP and BUD were found to be 5.3 times and 1.8 times more cohesive than lactose fines respectively. The model hence provides a link between the macroscopic behavior of a dry powder formulation and the interaction between the different species at the particulate level. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2006.05.005
Title:Cyclodextrins in the production of large porous particles: Development of dry powders for the sustained release of insulin to the lungs
Authors:F. UngaroG. De RosaA. MiroF. QuagliaM.I. La Rotonda
Absract:The aim of this work was to develop dry powders intended for insulin pulmonary delivery. To this purpose, large porous particles (LPP) made of poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) were produced by the double emulsion-solvent evaporation technique. Hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (HPβCD), also known as absorption enhancer for pulmonary protein delivery, was tested as aid excipient to optimize the aerodynamic behaviour of the microparticles. Several microsphere formulations, differing in HPβCD and insulin loadings, were produced and their properties compared. A contemporary release of insulin and HPβCD from the system can be achieved by selecting appropriate formulation conditions. HPβCD-containing LPP with flow properties and dimensions suitable for aerosolization and deposition in deep regions of the lung following inhalation were produced. In conclusion, the developed system turns to be of great potential for the combined delivery of the protein and the adsorption promoter in the respiratory tract. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1080/02652040802456924
Title:Carbomer-modified spray-dried respirable powders for pulmonary delivery of salbutamol sulphate
Authors:F.A. AlhusbanP.C. Seville
Absract:The present study investigates the feasibility of using two types of carbomer (971 and 974) to prepare inhalable dry powders that exhibit modified drug release properties. Powders were prepared by spray-drying formulations containing salbutamol sulphate, 2050% w/w carbomer as a drug release modifier and leucine as an aerosolization enhancer. Following physical characterization of the powders, the aerosolization and dissolution properties of the powders were investigated using a Multi-Stage Liquid Impinger and a modified USP II dissolution apparatus, respectively. All carbomer 974-modified powders and the 20% carbomer 971 powder demonstrated high dispersibility, with emitted doses of at least 80% and fine particle fractions of ∼40%. The release data indicated that all carbomer-modified powders displayed a sustained release profile, with carbomer 971-modified powders obeying first order kinetics, whereas carbomer 974-modified powders obeyed the Higuchi root time kinetic model; increasing the amount of carbomer 971 in the formulation did not extend the duration of drug release, whereas this was observed for the carbomer 974-modified powders. These powders would be anticipated to deposit predominately in the lower regions of the lung following inhalation and then undergo delayed rather than instantaneous drug release, offering the potential to reduce dosing frequency and improve patient compliance.

doi:10.1081/PDT-200035795
Title:Particle formation and capture during spray drying of inhalable particles
Authors:K. MosénK. BäckströmK. ThalbergT. SchaeferH.G. KristensenA. Axelsson
Absract:An investigation of the spray drying process is made in great detail regarding particle formation and capture efficiency with focus on the production of inhalable particles. Mannitol was spray dried as model substance and the spray-dried products were characterized. The resulting products consisted of smooth spheres with a volume median diameter of 2.2-5.5 μm, and narrow size distributions. The investigation was performed in pilot scale of sufficient size to draw general conclusions and make some recommendations. It has been shown that the size of particles is decreased when the feed concentration is decreased, the nozzle gas/feed flow mass ratio increased, and the droplet size decreased. The collection efficiency of the cyclone device used in this study was shown to have a cut-off of 2 μm, i.e., 50% of the particles less than 2 μm are not captured. The data reported indicate that the majority of the single particles formed here, <5 μm, arise from single droplets (of about 10 μm) and are solid, nonporous particles.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Formulating Amikacin for dry powder inhalation
Authors:I. SibumF. GrasmeijerP. HagedoornH.W. Frijlink
Absract:The aim of this study was to formulate amikacin as a dry powder inhalation product by spray drying with the least amount of excipients possible. Pure spray dried amikacin results in a primary particle size distribution suitable for pulmonary administration. However, due to the co- and adhesiveness of the powder, dispersion from our Cyclops® inhaler was poor. By adding 1 or 2% L-leucine dispersion was improved significantly without affecting the primary particle size distribution. Inhaler retention dropped from 50% to around 8% while the fine particle fraction improved fromapproximately 11%to 50%. This is likely a result of the fact that L-leucine has the tendency to form a coating around powder particles during spray drying. L-leucine is less co- and adhesive than amikacin and as a result dispersion is improved. As there was no significant difference between the 1 and 2% L-leucine samples the stability study was performed on the 1% L-leucine formulation. This stability study showed that the fine particle fraction stayed stable during 6 months under long-term and accelerated storage conditions. Inhaler retention was between 10.92 - 2.75% and 22.48 - 8.27% but no trend in time could be discerned. A pharmacokinetic evaluation and local tolerability clinical study is currently in preparation to study the suitability of this formulation for the treatment of tuberculosis patients.

pui:34836106
Title:Anti-Pseudomonas aerosol therapy in cystic fibrosis: Improvement with the new formulation of tobramycin
Authors:P. FoucaudB. BorelO. ChararaS. NathansonP. PetitprezI. Pin
Absract:Aerosol delivery of antibiotics offers the potential to achieve high antibiotic concentrations at the site of infection while reducing the risk of systemic untoward effects because of minimal resorption into the bloodstream. We reviewed knowledge acquired in this field over the two latter decades. While the earliest data were obtained with gentamycin, the most conclusive evidence presently regards aminoglycosides and colistin. Aerosol delivery of tobramycin was recently improved with the development of a new formulation for inhalation. Coupled with an adequate nebulization system, intermittent treatment with tobramycin for inhalation has been evaluated in randomized placebo-controlled studies. These studies have demonstrated a significant improvement of respiratory function.

doi:10.1023/A:1007562307414
Title:Surface active agents as enhancers of alveolar absorption
Authors:P. WollmerK. BäckströmH. ZhaoP.-G. NilssonB. Jonson
Absract:Purpose. Small solutes which are deposited in the alveoli by aerosol inhalation will be absorbed across the alveolo-capillary barrier. Inhalation of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate (DOSS) enhances absorption while having little or no effect on lung function, suggesting that surface active agents may be used as enhancers of alveolar absorption of inhaled pharmaceuticals. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a selection of different surface active agents on alveolar absorption. Methods. The absorption of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-diethylene triamine pentaacetate (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA) from the lungs was studied in rabbits. We studied five different surface active agents: DOSS, sodium glycodioxycholate (GDCA), sodium lauryl sulphate (NaLS), lysophosphatidyl choline (LPC) and polyoxyethylene-23-laurylether (P23LE). Results. DOSS and GDCA both dramatically enhanced the absorption of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc- DTPA. There was a moderate effect of NaLS, no significant effect of LPC and P23LE reduced the rate of absorption. None of the compounds affected gas exchange or lung compliance. Conclusions. There is a wide spectrum of effects of inhaled surface active agents on the alveolar absorption of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA. Ionic compounds such as DOSS and GDCA have the greatest effect, and further studies of these classes of surface active agents for use as enhancers of alveolar absorption of pharmaceuticals seem warranted.

doi:10.2217/nnm-2017-0188
Title:Inhaled simvastatin nanoparticles for inflammatory lung disease
Authors:A.S. TulbahE. PisanoS. ScaliaP.M. YoungD. TrainiH.X. Ong
Absract:Aim: Current inhaled treatments are not adequate to treat all lung diseases. In this study, a promising nanotechnology has been developed to deliver a potential anti-inflammatory and muco-inhibitory compound, simvastatin, for treatment of inflammatory lung diseases via inhalation. Materials & methods: Simvastatin nanoparticles (SV-NPs) encapsulated with poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid were fabricated using the solvent and anti-solvent precipitation method. Results: SV-NPs were found to be stable up to 9 months at 4°C in a freeze-dried form prior to reconstitution. The amount of mucus produced was significantly reduced after SV-NPs treatment on inflammation epithelial cell models and were effective in suppressing the proinflammatory marker expression. Conclusion: This study suggests that SV-NPs nebulization could potentially be used for the treatment of chronic pulmonary diseases.

doi:10.1177/0267659108094528
Title:Direct effects of volatile anesthetics on cardiac function
Authors:S. Gentry-SmetanaD. RedfordD. MooreD.F. Larson
Absract:The volatile anesthetics are a class of general anesthetic drugs used by the perfusionist during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). These agents are used in low doses in combination with other anesthetics to produce complete anesthesia. During CPB, these agents are capable of safely anesthetizing the paitent. It is well understood that these anesthetics act at the level of the central nervous system. However the intent of this study was to define the effects of isoflurane and sevoflurane on left ventricular function. C57BL/6 female mice were anesthetized with either isoflurane or sevoflurane at concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 5%. The cardiac function was assessed with transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). Sevoflurane caused a reduction of left ventricular function at lower concentrations compared with isoflurane. At concentrations of 2% and greater, sevoflurane significantly reduced cardiac output, ejection fraction, fractional shortening, and increased end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes. Isoflurane-induced reduction of left ventricular function was much less in magnitude when compared with sevoflurane. These data underscore the importance of using lower concentrations of volatile anesthetics during CPB especially during periods of cardiac recovery after aortic cross-clamp removal. © 2008 SAGE Publications.

pui:14096019
Title:Intravenous infusion of halothane dissolved in fat. Haemodynamic effects in dogs
Authors:B. BiberG. JohannessonO. Lennander
Absract:Eight harrier dogs received an i.v. infusion of halothane dissolved 1:9 in a fat emulsion for i.v. nutrition (Intralipid®, Vitrum). The rate of infusion was adjusted to maintain end-tidal halothane concentrations of 0.7% and 1.4%. At 1.4%, mean arterial pressure decreased to 76 ± 8 mmHg (10.1 ± 1.0 kPa) (mean ± s.e. mean) from a pre-infusion value of 122 ± 6 mmHg (16.2 ± 0.8 kPa) (P < 0.01). The concomitant decrease in cardiac output was 39% and left ventricular maximum dp/dt decreased by 50% (P < 0.01). Changes in systemic vascular resistance and pulmonary arterial pressure were small. The haemodynamic responses during halothane inhalation, to corresponding end-tidal concentrations, were similar. Arterial and mixed venous halothane concentration increased in proportion to end-tidal concentration. There were no changes in arterial P(O2) during the halothane-in-fat infusion. Triglyceride concentrations in plasma increased 12-fold. Haemodynamic recovery after the infusion was fast. We conclude that the halothane-in-fat infusion caused a dose-dependent depression of myocardial contractility and arterial pressure, similar to that seen during inhalation, and that end-tidal concentration could be used for control of the infusion rate.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(01)00898-5
Title:In vitro and in vivo aspects of quantifying intrapulmonary deposition of a dry powder radioaerosol
Authors:E. BondessonL. AskingL. BorgströmL.-E. NilssonE. TrofastP. Wollmer
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of pharmaceutical aerosols can be quantified using gamma scintigraphy. Technetium-99m, the most commonly used radionuclide in scintigraphic studies, cannot be incorporated into the drug molecule and, therefore, may be distributed differently from the drug itself, particularly if the drug is presented as a solid in a liquid suspension or as a dry powder formulation. This study demonstrated the importance of using conditions relevant to the in vivo situation in the in vitro characterisation of a dry powder aerosol of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelled lactose. The influence of inspiratory flow on the distribution of aerosol within the lungs was investigated in eight healthy subjects who inhaled the @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelled lactose at four flows (30, 40, 60 and 80 l/min). No differences in penetration index (PI) or count density distribution of radioactivity were seen, indicating that regional distribution of aerosol in healthy airways was insensitive to differences in the inspiratory effort exerted by the subject while inhaling the experimental dry powder radioaerosol. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1211/0022357055092
Title:Kanamycin incorporation in lipid vesicles prepared by ethanol injection designed for tuberculosis treatment
Authors:O. Rodriguez JustoA.M. Moraes
Absract:The primary goal of this study was the production of liposomes encapsulating kanamycin for drug administration by inhalation. The selected drug is indicated for multiresistant tuberculosis, and administration through inhalation allows both local delivery of the drug to the lungs and systemic therapy. The ethanol injection method used for the liposome production is easily scaled up and is characterized by simplicity and low cost. Vesicles were prepared using different lipid compositions, including hydrogenated soybean phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol (SPC/Chol), egg phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol (EPC/Chol), distearoyl phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol (DSPC/Chol), distearoyl phosphatidylcholine, dimyristoyl phosphatidylethanolamine and cholesterol (DSPC/DMPE/Chol), dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol (DPPC/Chol) and dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoyl phosphatidylglycerol and cholesterol (DPPC/DPPG/Chol). The effects of different operational conditions for vesicle production and drug encapsulation were evaluated, aiming at a compromise between final process cost and suitable vesicle characteristics. The best performance concerning drug incorporation was achieved with the DSPC/Chol system, although its production cost was considerably larger than that of the natural lipids formulations. Encapsulation efficiencies up to 63% and final drug to lipid molar ratios up to 0.1 were obtained for SPC/Chol vesicles presenting mean diameters of 132 nm incubated at 60°C with the drug for 60 min at an initial drug-to-lipid molar ratio of 0.16.

doi:10.1016/s1773-2247(05)50036-4
Title:Effect of physical properties of carrier particles on drug emission from a dry powder inhaler device
Authors:H. MurakoshiT. SaotomeY. FujiiT. OzekiY. TakashimaH. YuasaH. Okada
Absract:In the present study, we investigated the effects of the physical properties of carrier lactose particles on drug emission from a novel dry powder inhaler device, Jethaler. Fine sodium salicylate (SS) particles used as the model drug particles for inhalation were prepared by a jet mill and these were mixed with carrier lactoses having different particle sizes. In vitro SS emission properties from the Jethaler were evaluated by a cascade impactor. The SS emission from the Jethaler increased when the lactoses had lower amounts of fine lactose particles. This emission was influenced bv SS remaining in the capsule rather than adhering to the inside wall in the Jethaler. In the capsule, the air stream did not smoothly disintegrate mixtures that contained larger amounts of fine lactose particles after inhalation. These findings suggested that the SS emission from the Jethaler were greatly improved using the carrier lactose having lower amounts of fine particles, because this lactose caused loose agglomerative properties that resulted in almost complete emptying of the mixture remaining in the capsule.

pui:30394832
Title:Formoterol Turbuhaler 6 μg vs. Formoterol Aerolizer 12 μg
Authors:P. Schlimmer
Absract:Formoterol, a long lasting bronchodilator with a fast onset of action is available in two different devices, Turbuhaler and Aerolizer. Formoterol Turbuhaler 6 μg contains a small amount of 0,594 μg micronised lactose per dose whereas in the Aerolizer formoterol is combined with 22,5 mg grained lactose. Due to the differences in galenic composition and the properties of the inhalation devices, Turbuhaler deposits at least twice as much of the drug into the airways as compared with Aerolizer. In an open randomized crossover study design it was investigated whether the formoterol dose could be halved by using the Turbuhaler device and still produces a similar outcome regarding onset and duration of action and maximum effect. This was tested by measuring the specific airway conductance (sGAW) in asthmatic patients. After reversibility testing with terbutaline and a run-in period of one week 16 patients suffering from stable moderate to servere asthma were randomized. The patients inhaled a single dose of the different formulations on two different days. After the application of the drug sGAW was measured at different time points for a period of eight hours. No differences between the two types of formoterol inhalation devices were found regarding onset and duration of action, maximum effect and AUC. In conclusion it is possible to obtain a similar clinical effect with Formoterol Turbuhaler 6 μg as with twice the dose in Formoterol Aerolizer 12 μg. Beside the easier way of application Formoterol Turbuhaler 6 μg provides the more economical alternative as well.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Development of nsaid-containing dry powder inhalation formulation co-spray-dried with sodium stearate
Authors:E. BenkeP. Szabó-RévészR. Ambrus
Absract:The use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is well established in local pulmonary therapy, for example in cystic fibrosis. They are able to directly reduce inflammation, even indirectly slowing the progression of this disease. In the case of pulmonary drug delivery, the use of dry powder inhalation (DPI) systems is most common. Spray drying is a popular method for preparing these. The successful use of a number of excipients has already been published, however, there is still little experience with NSAID-containing DPIs. The aim of the present work was to study DPI formulations prepared by co-spray-drying, using meloxicam-potassium (MXP) and different concentrations of sodium stearate (NaSt). Physicochemical, in vitro drug release and in vitro lung deposition studies, were performed with the prepared microcomposites. Based on the results, it can be stated that the use of NaSt during co-spray-drying of MXP has a positive effect on the morphology, particle size and cohesive work of the produced particles, as a result, the in vitro aerodynamic properties were also improved and the dissolution of the drug in simulated lung fluid in the presence of NaSt was improved. Overall, the study of excipients that have already been proven in other pharmacological groups is justified in the case of pulmonary delivery of NSAIDs, and there are still many opportunities for the development of NSAID-containing DPI formulations.

pui:27169079
Title:The effects of LY293111Na, a leukotriene B@sub_begin4@sub_end receptor antagonist, on the pulmonary neutrophilia and CD11b expression caused by inhalation of a leukotriene B@sub_begin4@sub_end aerosol in rhesus monkeys
Authors:D.L. AllenW.P. HoffmanP. MarderM.R. MatchettP.A. LeiterD.L. AbbottR.K. Wolff
Absract:The dose-response relationship between aerosolized leukotriene B@sub_begin4@sub_end (LTB@sub_begin4@sub_end) and pulmonary neutrophilia was examined in a group of five rhesus monkeys. The effects of an oral dose of LY293111Na on LTB@sub_begin4@sub_end-aerosol-induced pulmonary neutrophilia were also examined. Ex vivo expression of CD11b receptors on polymorphonuclear leukocytes from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and peripheral whole blood were also assessed. Up-regulation of CD11b adhesion receptors by LTB@sub_begin4@sub_end was assessed ex vivo on the peripheral whole blood. Pulmonary neutrophilia was linearly associated with dose of inhaled LTB@sub_begin4@sub_end. LY293111Na, at 10 mg/kg, significantly blocked the profound bronchoalveolar lavage neutrophilia produced by LTB@sub_begin4@sub_end aerosol inhalation. A large (48%), but not statistically significant, reduction was seen for CD11b expression on bronchoalveolar lavage polymorphonuclear leukocytes after pretreatment with LY293111Na. LY293111Na did not significantly change the number of white blood cells in peripheral blood. LY293111Na did significantly attenuate the LTB@sub_begin4@sub_end-induced up-regulation of CD11b receptors on peripheral blood neutrophils. We conclude that LY293111Na may be an effective oral treatment for diseases that involve neutrophilic inflammation.

doi:10.1080/10717544.2021.1912209
Title:Inhalation delivery dramatically improves the efficacy of topotecan for the treatment of local and distant lung cancer
Authors:P.J. KuehlC.M. YinglingD. DuboseM. BurkeD.A. RevelliW. ChenW.W. DyeS.A. BelinskyM. Tessema
Absract:Topotecan is potent anti-cancer drug approved for various malignancies but hematopoietic toxicities undermine its wider application and use of its most effective dose. This study aims to improve these limitations through inhalation-delivery. The pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and toxicity of 2–5 times lower inhalation doses of topotecan dry-powder were compared with the standard intravenous (IV) delivery once/twice-a-week. Human-derived EGFR-mutant (H1975), KRAS-mutant (A549), and EGFR/KRAS wild-type (H358) orthotopic and distant lung tumors were evaluated in murine models. Inhalation of 1 mg/kg topotecan significantly improved the half-life and drug exposure (area under the curve, AUC) compared to 5 mg/kg via IV-delivery. AUCs (h*ng/mL) for inhaled/IV topotecan in plasma, lung, liver, and brain were, 831/888, 60,000/1080, 8380/4000, and 297/15, respectively; while the half-life was also greatly increased in these tissues. The average lung tumor burden of H358-derived tumors was reduced from 15.0 g to 8.4 g (44%) in rats treated once-a-week with 2 mg/kg IV and 1.8 g (88%) with 1 mg/kg inhaled topotecan, corroborating previous findings using A549- and H1975-derived orthotopic lung tumors. Importantly, inhaled topotecan showed superior efficacy in suppressing lung tumors at distant sites. The growth of H1975- and H358-derived subcutaneous xenografts were completely arrested and A549-derived tumors were significantly reduced in mice treated twice-a-week with 1 mg/kg inhaled topotecan compared to a minor (H1975 and H358) or no reduction (A549) with twice-a-week 5 mg/kg IV topotecan.

doi:10.3390/ijms22020548
Title:Development and characterization of treprostinil palmitil inhalation aerosol for the investigational treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:A.J. PlauntS. IslamT. MacalusoH. GauaniT. BakerD. ChunV. ViramontesC. ChangM.R. CorbozR.W. ChapmanZ. LiD.C. CipollaW.R. PerkinsV.S. Malinin
Absract:Treprostinil palmitil (TP) is a prodrug of treprostinil (TRE), a pulmonary vasodilator that has been previously formulated for inhaled administration via a nebulizer. TP demonstrates a sustained presence in the lungs with reduced systemic exposure and prolonged inhibition of hypoxiainduced pulmonary vasoconstriction in vivo. Here, we report on re-formulation efforts to develop a more convenient solution-based metered-dose inhaler (MDI) formulation of TP, a treprostinil palmitil inhalation aerosol (TPIA) that matches the pharmacokinetic (PK) and efficacy profile of a nebulized TP formulation, treprostinil palmitil inhalation suspension (TPIS). MDI canisters were manufactured using a two-stage filling method. Aerosol performance, formulation solubility, and chemical stability assays were utilized for in vitro evaluation. For in vivo studies, TPIA formulations were delivered to rodents using an inhalation tower modified for MDI delivery. Using an iterative process involving evaluation of formulation performance in vitro (TP and excipient solubility, chemical stability, physical stability, and aerosol properties) and confirmatory testing in vivo (rat PK and efficacy, guinea pig cough), a promising formulation was identified. The optimized formulation, TPIA-W, demonstrates uniform in vitro drug delivery, a PK profile suitable for a once-daily administration, efficacy lasting at least 12 h in a hypoxic challenge model, and a significantly higher cough threshold than the parent drug treprostinil.

doi:10.5694/j.1326-5377.1977.tb99110.x
Title:Poisoning by carbamate pesticides
Authors:G.R. SimpsonS. Bermingham
Absract:In recent years the number of carbamate pesticides registered for use in New South Wales has increased. Some of the newer carbamates are very toxic and have cholinergic properties similar to those of the organic phosphates, though the effect is of much shorter duration. Because of this, separate tests for plasma and red blood cell levels of cholinesterase should be conducted as soon as possible after exposure in order to obtain meaningful results. A typical case of carbamate poisoning is described in which both plasma and red blood cell cholinesterase values were lowered. The substitution of a liquid pesticide formulation for the original powder formulation has reduced the operator inhalation hazard in the case of methomyl.

doi:10.1080/08982104.2019.1610434
Title:Design, optimization, characterization, and in vivo evaluation of sterosomes as a carrier of metformin for treatment of lung cancer
Authors:H. OsamaO.M. SayedR.R.S. HusseinM. AbdelrahimA. A. Elberry
Absract:The present study aimed to formulate and evaluate metformin sterosomes. Sterosomes were prepared by incorporating stearylamine and cholesterol in different ratios. Sterosomes were characterized using size, zeta potential, entrapment efficiency (EE%) and in vitro release. Aerosol generated by nebulization was evaluated by a cooled Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) at 15 L/min. In vitro cytotoxicity of free and metformin-containing sterosomes was tested against human cancer cell lines. A comparative pharmacokinetic study between sterosomal formulation and free drug solution (750 mg) was performed. Spirometry was performed before and at time intervals after inhalation. The mean hydrodynamic diameter of the formulated vesicles was in the range of 288.7–578 nm. The EE% varied from 71 ± 1.4% to 89 ± 5.2%, with an optimum EE% of 89 ± 5.2at a lipid ratio of 2/1 stearylamine/cholesterol. Metformin sterosomes displayed an inhibitory effect on A549 lung cancer cell lines which significantly (p < 0.05) increased depending on dose and prolonged exposure time. Spirometric data were minimally changed before and after inhalation without a statistically significant difference in the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end), forced vital capacity (FVC) or FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end/FVC ratio (p > 0.05). Metformin-loaded sterosomes resulted in a significant increase in biological half-life (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end) with a mean value of 7.31 ± 1.04 h compared to 3.99 ± 0.17 h of the solution form. However, the peak plasma concentration of metformin sterosomes was lower than that achieved by metformin-free solution aerosol, and the difference was statistically significant (p < 0.05).The eligibility of sterosomes for aerosol delivery by nebulization would provide a novel strategy for delivery of metformin by inhalation as a potentially effective inhalation treatment of lung cancer.

doi:10.1016/j.arbr.2019.12.015
Title:Are inhalation devices important in antibiotic treatment?
Authors:C. Prados SánchezL. Máiz CarroE. Zamarrón de LucasR. Álvarez-Sala Walther
Absract:The present study aimed to formulate and evaluate metformin sterosomes. Sterosomes were prepared by incorporating stearylamine and cholesterol in different ratios. Sterosomes were characterized using size, zeta potential, entrapment efficiency (EE%) and in vitro release. Aerosol generated by nebulization was evaluated by a cooled Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) at 15 L/min. In vitro cytotoxicity of free and metformin-containing sterosomes was tested against human cancer cell lines. A comparative pharmacokinetic study between sterosomal formulation and free drug solution (750 mg) was performed. Spirometry was performed before and at time intervals after inhalation. The mean hydrodynamic diameter of the formulated vesicles was in the range of 288.7–578 nm. The EE% varied from 71 ± 1.4% to 89 ± 5.2%, with an optimum EE% of 89 ± 5.2at a lipid ratio of 2/1 stearylamine/cholesterol. Metformin sterosomes displayed an inhibitory effect on A549 lung cancer cell lines which significantly (p < 0.05) increased depending on dose and prolonged exposure time. Spirometric data were minimally changed before and after inhalation without a statistically significant difference in the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end), forced vital capacity (FVC) or FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end/FVC ratio (p > 0.05). Metformin-loaded sterosomes resulted in a significant increase in biological half-life (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end) with a mean value of 7.31 ± 1.04 h compared to 3.99 ± 0.17 h of the solution form. However, the peak plasma concentration of metformin sterosomes was lower than that achieved by metformin-free solution aerosol, and the difference was statistically significant (p < 0.05).The eligibility of sterosomes for aerosol delivery by nebulization would provide a novel strategy for delivery of metformin by inhalation as a potentially effective inhalation treatment of lung cancer.

doi:10.1517/13543770903059281
Title:A novel Syk kinase inhibitor suitable for inhalation: R-343(?) - WO-2009031011
Authors:P. Norman
Absract:The subject of this application is N@sup_begin4@sup_end-[(2,2-difluoro-4H-benzo[1, 4]oxazin-3-one)-6-yl]-5-fluoro-N@sup_begin2@sup_end-[3- (methylaminocarbonylmethyleneoxy)phenyl]-2,4-pyrimidinediamine xinafoate salt, as well as inhalant formulations of the salt and a process for the preparation of the salt. This salt is probably R-343, a Syk kinase inhibitor being developed under license by Pfizer, an inhaled formulation of which is in Phase I development for the treatment of asthma. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved.

pui:610089222
Title:Advances in pulmonary delivery of inhaled anti-infectives
Authors:D.L. Hava
Absract:With the growing problems caused by antimicrobial resistance, there is increasing interest in the use of improved strategies for drug delivery. David L. Hava, PhD, Chief Scientific Officer, Pulmatrix, explores the benefits of nebulised inhaled antibiotics delivered via high throughput nebulisers for aqueous formulations or dry powder inhalations for cystic fibrosis patients.

pui:366100386
Title:What is the difference between different sevoflurane products?
Authors:Z. AlanoǧluÇ. Yildirim GüçluA.O. BermedeN. Alkiş
Absract:Sevoflurane is a halogenated inhalation anesthetic which is commonly used in anesthesia practice since 1990, especially in pediatric patient group. In our country there are two different sevoflurane in use, produced by two different companies. They have clear differences in terms of preparation, packaging and presentation. Anesthesiologists remain under information overload and have difficulties when choosing between preparations. Therefore, caution must be exercised in the use of different preparations, if an unexpected effect is found patient safety should be kept at the forefront and must be reported to the authorities. In this review the literature on the different preparations of sevoflurane is revised to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages.

doi:10.1002/jps.10379
Title:Evaluation of nose-only aerosol inhalation chamber and comparison of experimental results with mathematical simulation of aerosol deposition in mouse lungs
Authors:V. NaditheM. RahamatallaW.H. FinlayJ.R. MercerJ. Samuel
Absract:In vivo small rodent efficacy testing of new synthetic and biological molecules for the pulmonary route requires an efficient delivery device. For this purpose, a nose-only inhalation chamber was used to deliver aerosolized aqueous compounds to the respiratory tract of mice. The aim of the study was to determine the efficiency of dose delivery and deposition in the lungs of the mice using this chamber. A secondary goal was to compare the experimental lung deposition results with values predicted from mathematical simulation. Experimental tests were conducted by generating aerosols of a radiolabeled formulation of human serum albumin (HSA) with a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 3.9 ± 0.5 μm and a geometric standard deviation (GSD) of 1.43 ± 0.05 using PARI LC STARjet nebulizers. Based on the total activity placed in the nebulizer, the chamber delivered 0.108 ± 0.027% to the mice and 0.0087 ± 0.0021% to the lungs of the mice. In vivo lung deposition was found to be 8.19 ± 3.56% of total activity deposited in the mouse. Mathematical simulation predictions ranged between 5.89 and 4.40% for various breathing patterns, and did not differ significantly from the in vivo results (p > 0.10). These results provide important quantitative information relevant to aerosol delivery experiments in mouse models. Our results also suggest that the noseonlyinhalation chamber would benefit from significant changes to increase the efficiency of deposition in mice such that it can be used for nebulization of expensive therapeutic drugs. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1002/cpdd.858
Title:Cognitive performance and psychedelic effects following single and multiple ascending doses of a new cannabis formulation (PPP001) administered by smoking/inhalation in male and female volunteers
Authors:B. SetnikJ. HuguetC. MillsR. RinguetteC. CampbellA. De PauwE. SicardG. Chamberland
Absract:Statement of Purpose, Innovation or Hypothesis: PPP001 is a dried cannabis product for smoked inhalation in development for the treatment of chronic pain. Advantages of intrapulmonary administration of cannabinoids (e.g., by smoking) include high systemic bioavailability and fast onset of action. (1) However, adverse events (AE), including cognitive dysfunction, may be observed depending on exposure levels. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the safety, tolerability and cognitive effects of PPP001 following smoked inhalation over one or seven consecutive days in an escalating fashion. Description of Methods and Materials: This study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single (three cohorts) and multiple (three cohorts) staggered drug administration regimens (once [QD], twice [BID] or three times a day [TID]) design in 48 subjects (eight subjects/cohort; two placebo; six active). PPP001 (25 mg THC / 5.5 mg CBD) and placebo (0 mg THC / 0.8 mg CBD) were administered by smoking/inhalation with a titanium pipe at a dose of 9% (25 mg) THC / 2% (5.5 mg) CBD, QD (cohort A1), BID (cohort A2) or TID (cohort A3) daily, four hrs apart, for one day (Part A) and following a five-day titration and two days of full assigned regimens (Part B, cohorts B1 to B3). Pharmacodynamic assessments included the Bowdle Visual Analog Scales (VAS), assessing subjective drug effects, as well as Choice Reaction Time (RTI), Paired Associate Learning (PAL), Spatial Working Memory (SWM) and the Rapid Visual Information test (RVP) assessing cognition/psychomotor processing. Pharmacodynamic assessments were performed at baseline and 0.5, 1 and 2.5 hrs following each drug administration. Descriptive analysis was performed using summary statistics. Pharmacokinetic, safety assessments and cardiac safety monitoring were performed. Data and Results: A marked increase was observed when compared to placebo (maximum peak effect ranging from 32.8 to 58.6 for the active arm and ranging from 0 to 15.2 for placebo arm) for the feeling high item in Part A. No cumulative effect was observed upon QD, BID or TID regimen (four hrs apart) administered on a single day. No clear difference with placebo was observed for feeling drowsy item. An increase when compared to placebo was detected for the composite scores internal perception (seven items) and external perception (six items). Similar trend (marked change from baseline) was observed for the psychomotor testing (e.g. processing speed, episodic learning/memory, working memory, executive function, sustained attention and psychomotor speed). Similar results were obtained for Part B. Overall AE incidence was 92% (22 / 24) in subjects who received either cannabis or placebo. Majority of the AEs were mild in intensity (80%). For THC and CBD T@sub_beginmax@sub_end ranged from 0.05-0.17 hrs and 0.02-0.17 hrs, while AUC increased from 30 to 94 ng∗h/mL and 7.8 to 21 ng∗h/mL across cohorts, respectively. Both THC and CBD were eliminated in less than 1.6 hrs (t1/2). Interpretation, Conclusion or Significance: Following controlled acute QD, BID or TID, 4 hrs apart, administration(s) of cannabis by smoking/inhalation, psychedelic effects and cognitive performance measures were different compared to placebo (increase or decrease), while no accumulation of the cognitive effect was observed. Pharmacokinetic results showed no evidence of accumulation and treatments were generally well tolerated.

doi:10.34172/APB.2021.074
Title:Experimental design supported liposomal aztreonam delivery: In Vitro studies
Authors:S. BhattacharyyaP. SudheerK. DasS. Ray
Absract:Purpose: The present study focuses on a systemic approach to develop liposomal aztreonam as a promising dosage form for inhalation therapy in the treatment of pneumonia and explores the in-vitro antimicrobial and cell uptake efficacy. Methods: Liposomes were prepared by ethanol injection method using the lipids - soya phosphatidylcholine (SP) and cholesterol (CH). A central composite design (CCD) was employed to optimize the lipid composition to evaluate the effect on vesicle size, zeta potential and entrapment efficiency of the formulation. A numerical and graphical optimization was carried out to predict the optimized blend. The optimized formulation was characterized for vesicle size, surface charge, encapsulation, surface morphology, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), powder X Ray Diffraction (PXRD), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), in vitro diffusion, accelerated stability studies, antimicrobial studies on Pseudomonas aeruginosa NCIM 2200 and in vitro cell uptake studies. Results: The optimized formulation was found to have a particle size of 144 nm, a surface charge of -35 mV, with satisfactory drug entrapment. The surface morphology study proved the formation of nanosized vesicles. The drug release from liposomal matrix was biphasic in nature. The solid-state study revealed the reason for good encapsulation of drug. The moisture retention capacity was found to be minimum. The anti-microbial study revealed the potential antibacterial activity of the optimized formulation over the pure drug. The formulation was found to be safe on the epithelial cells and showed a marked increase in cellular uptake of aztreonam in a lipid carrier. Conclusion: It can be concluded that the optimized liposomal aztreonam could be considered as a promising approach for the delivery of aztreonam through inhalation.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.05.068
Title:Ciprofloxacin nanocrystals liposomal powders for controlled drug release via inhalation
Authors:I. KhatibD. KhanalJ. RuanD. CipollaF. DaytonJ.D. BlanchardH.-K. Chan
Absract:This study was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of developing inhalable dry powders of liposomal encapsulated ciprofloxacin nanocrystals (LECN) for controlled drug release. Dry powders of LECN were produced by freeze-thaw followed by spray drying. The formulations contained sucrose as a lyoprotectant in different weight ratios (0.75:1, 1:1 and 2:1 sucrose to lipids), along with 2% magnesium stearate and 5% isoleucine as aerosolization enhancers. The powder physical properties (particle size, morphology, crystallinity, moisture content), in vitro aerosolization performance, drug encapsulation efficiency and in vitro drug release were investigated. The spray dried powders were comprised of spherical particles with a median diameter of ∼1 µm, partially crystalline, with a low water content (∼2% mass) and did not undergo recrystallization at high relative humidity. When dispersed by an Osmohaler® inhaler at 100 L/min, the powders showed a high aerosol performance with a fine particle fraction (% wt. <5 µm) of 66–70%. After reconstitution of the powders in saline, ciprofloxacin nanocrystals were confirmed by cryo-electron microscopy. The drug encapsulation efficiency of the reconstituted liposomes was 71–79% compared with the stock liquid formulation. Of the three formulations, the one containing a sucrose to lipids wt. ratio of 2:1 demonstrated a prolonged release of ciprofloxacin from the liposomes. In conclusion, ciprofloxacin nanocrystal liposomal powders were prepared that were suitable for inhalation aerosol delivery and controlled drug release.

pui:26031156
Title:Evaluation of different doses of formoterol from a newly developed powder inhalation device in asthmatic patients
Authors:B.T.J. Van den BergJ.J. SmeetsC.J. Van BoxtelF.P.V. Maesen
Absract:Administration of different doses of formoterol from a recently developed multiple dose dry powder device was tested in a placebo-controlled, single-centre, double-blind, within-patient trial. Eighteen patients of both sexes, aged 18-65 years, with a FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of 50-80% and a reversibility of at]east 15% were randomized. During four treatment periods of 8 days each, divided by aproximately 6 days, patients received placebo or 6, 12 or 24 μg (PL, F6, F12 and F24, respectively) of formoterol from the powder device. Efficacy parameters (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and safety parameters (primarily pulse rate, electrocardiogram [ECG] and subjective experiences) were evaluated during 24 hours on the last day of each treatment period. Peak flow and the number of puffs of used rescue medication (100 μg of salbutamol) were registered during treatment periods. For efficacy analysis, 17 patients remained. For FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end 0.5 hour before the last dose and 12 and 24 hours after the last dose all formoterol doses were statistically significant superior to placebo. Clinically relevant differences from placebo were found up to 8 hours (F6) and 12 hours (F12 and F24). The difference between doses was clinically relevant for the area under the FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end curve between F6 and F24. PEF on the treatment days corresponded to these findings. In three cases of 13 reported adverse effects, the relation to trial medication was probable (tremor) or possible (insomnia and hyperaesthesia). All other safety measurements showed no significant differences. We conclude that formoterol dry powder in the newly developed multiple dose inhalation device is an effective and safe β@sub_begin2@sub_end-stimulant with a long duration of action in doses of 6, 12 and 24 μg. The 24 μg dose is superior to the 6 μg dose. Efficacy decreased considerably between the 12th and 24th hour after dosing.

doi:10.1093/ajhp/61.15.1556
Title:Environmental exposure of health care workers to category D and X medications
Authors:E.M. TimpeS.E. MotlM.L. Hogan
Absract:Administration of different doses of formoterol from a recently developed multiple dose dry powder device was tested in a placebo-controlled, single-centre, double-blind, within-patient trial. Eighteen patients of both sexes, aged 18-65 years, with a FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of 50-80% and a reversibility of at]east 15% were randomized. During four treatment periods of 8 days each, divided by aproximately 6 days, patients received placebo or 6, 12 or 24 μg (PL, F6, F12 and F24, respectively) of formoterol from the powder device. Efficacy parameters (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and safety parameters (primarily pulse rate, electrocardiogram [ECG] and subjective experiences) were evaluated during 24 hours on the last day of each treatment period. Peak flow and the number of puffs of used rescue medication (100 μg of salbutamol) were registered during treatment periods. For efficacy analysis, 17 patients remained. For FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end 0.5 hour before the last dose and 12 and 24 hours after the last dose all formoterol doses were statistically significant superior to placebo. Clinically relevant differences from placebo were found up to 8 hours (F6) and 12 hours (F12 and F24). The difference between doses was clinically relevant for the area under the FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end curve between F6 and F24. PEF on the treatment days corresponded to these findings. In three cases of 13 reported adverse effects, the relation to trial medication was probable (tremor) or possible (insomnia and hyperaesthesia). All other safety measurements showed no significant differences. We conclude that formoterol dry powder in the newly developed multiple dose inhalation device is an effective and safe β@sub_begin2@sub_end-stimulant with a long duration of action in doses of 6, 12 and 24 μg. The 24 μg dose is superior to the 6 μg dose. Efficacy decreased considerably between the 12th and 24th hour after dosing.

doi:10.1136/adc.2004.049577
Title:The use of inhaled corticosteroids during childhood: Plus ça change...
Authors:G. Russell
Absract:Administration of different doses of formoterol from a recently developed multiple dose dry powder device was tested in a placebo-controlled, single-centre, double-blind, within-patient trial. Eighteen patients of both sexes, aged 18-65 years, with a FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of 50-80% and a reversibility of at]east 15% were randomized. During four treatment periods of 8 days each, divided by aproximately 6 days, patients received placebo or 6, 12 or 24 μg (PL, F6, F12 and F24, respectively) of formoterol from the powder device. Efficacy parameters (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and safety parameters (primarily pulse rate, electrocardiogram [ECG] and subjective experiences) were evaluated during 24 hours on the last day of each treatment period. Peak flow and the number of puffs of used rescue medication (100 μg of salbutamol) were registered during treatment periods. For efficacy analysis, 17 patients remained. For FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end 0.5 hour before the last dose and 12 and 24 hours after the last dose all formoterol doses were statistically significant superior to placebo. Clinically relevant differences from placebo were found up to 8 hours (F6) and 12 hours (F12 and F24). The difference between doses was clinically relevant for the area under the FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end curve between F6 and F24. PEF on the treatment days corresponded to these findings. In three cases of 13 reported adverse effects, the relation to trial medication was probable (tremor) or possible (insomnia and hyperaesthesia). All other safety measurements showed no significant differences. We conclude that formoterol dry powder in the newly developed multiple dose inhalation device is an effective and safe β@sub_begin2@sub_end-stimulant with a long duration of action in doses of 6, 12 and 24 μg. The 24 μg dose is superior to the 6 μg dose. Efficacy decreased considerably between the 12th and 24th hour after dosing.

doi:10.2174/1389201023378300
Title:Encapsulating DNA within biodegradable polymeric micorparticles
Authors:C.S. LengsfeldM.C. ManningT.W. Randolph
Absract:In order for genetic medicines to become viable commercial products, the active form of the drug (e.g., DNA) must be able to reach the site of action and remain there long enough to accomplish its intended function. Encapsulation of plasmid DNA into biodegradable microspheres is one approach towards solving this challenge. This review describes the primary methods for satisfactorily entrapping intact DNA into biodegradable polymeric matrices. In particular, the materials, processes, and equipment required for each encapsulation method are described in detail. The resulting microspheres could be used for parenteral, oral, and inhalation therapy.

pui:40074257
Title:Study on the powder properties of insulin dry powder inhalations
Authors:H. ZhuJ.-B. Zhu
Absract:Aim: To prepare insulin dry powder inhalations by spray-drying. The evaluation methods of powder properties were established and the relationship between these values was studied. Method: The vitro aerosol deposition of insulin inhalation was determined according to Chinese Pharmacopoeia 2000. Particles' morphology and size were observed by scanning electronic microphotograph and Malvern Mastersizer. The aerodynamic diameter was calculated in terms of particle diameters and tapped densities. The fluidity and safety of the powders were evaluated by the determination of repose angle and solubility. Result: The deposition fraction of all the powders varied and showed strong correlation with aerodynamic diameter of particles. The deposition fraction was also influenced by aerosolization properties of the powders. Conclusion: The particle and powder characteristics can be well evaluated by the methods mentioned in the articles in which will be provided some instructions in carrier-screening.

pui:34309420
Title:The lyophilisation and aerosolisation of liposomes for pulmonary drug administration
Authors:Y. DarwisI.W. Kellaway
Absract:Lyophilisation of liposomes often results in aggregation and/or fusion of vesicles which are too large for dry powder inhalation to the lung. These issues are addressed in this paper which examines the influence of some excipients on liposome lyophilisation and the subsequent aerosolisation properties of the resultant dry powder formulations. A significant increase in aerosolised BDP liposomes size <3.98 μm (fine particle fraction) was achievable by preparing liposomes with trehalose or lactose. These carbohydrates were equally effective in reducing the aggregation and fusion of lyophilised DMPC and DPPC liposomes. However, the performance of lactose was superior to that of trehalose with Epikuron liposomes. Micronising lyophilised Epikuron trehalose or lactose vesicles with a jet-mill also demonstrated an improvement in the fine particle fractions and aerodynamic diameters of the aerosolised liposomes.

doi:10.1002/ppul.23451
Title:Inhalation of tobramycin using simulated cystic fibrosis patient profiles
Authors:A. HaynesD. GellerJ. WeersB. AmentR. PavkovR. MalcolmsonL. DebonnettP. MastoridisA. YadaoS. Heuerding
Absract:Introduction: TOBI@sup_begin®@sup_end Podhaler™ is a capsule-based drug-device combination (tobramycin inhalation powder [TIP] 28 mg capsules via unit-dose dry powder T-326 Inhaler [Podhaler™]) developed for treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis (CF). We explored how inspiratory flow profiles and mouth-throat geometries affect drug delivery with the T-326 Inhaler. Methods: Inspiratory flow profiles were recorded from 38 subjects aged 6–71 who had CF and varying degrees of lung function impairment. Ten of the inspiratory flow profiles were simulated in the laboratory using a custom breath simulator to determine delivered dose (DD) from the T-326 Inhaler. In vitro total lung dose (TLD@sub_beginin vitro@sub_end) was measured using four anatomical throat models, ranging from a child to a large adult. Results: Aerosol performance was assessed across a range of inspiratory flow profiles. Mean DD ranged from 88.8% to 97.0% of declared capsule content. TLD@sub_beginin vitro@sub_end ranged from 54.8% to 72.4% of capsule content between the flow profile/throat options tested, and the mean TLD@sub_beginin vitro@sub_end across the range of flow profiles and anatomical throats tested was 63 ± 5%. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the T-326 Inhaler provides reliable drug delivery at flow rates likely to be achieved by a broad spectrum of patients with CF. Importantly, forceful inhalation was not required to achieve a robust TLD@sub_beginin vitro@sub_end. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2016;51:1159–1167. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.1080/10717544.2016.1247924
Title:Antitumor activity of intratracheal inhalation of temozolomide (TMZ) loaded into gold nanoparticles and/or liposomes against urethane-induced lung cancer in BALB/c mice
Authors:M.A. HamzawyA.M. Abo-YoussefH.F. SalemS.A. Mohammed
Absract:The current study aimed to develop gold nanoparticles (GNPs) and liposome-embedded gold nanoparticles (LGNPs) as drug carriers for temozolomide (TMZ) and investigate the possible therapeutic effects of intratracheal inhalation of nanoformulation of TMZ-loaded gold nanoparticles (TGNPs) and liposome-embedded TGNPs (LTGNPs) against urethane-induced lung cancer in BALB/c mice. Physicochemical characters and zeta potential studies for gold nanoparticles (GNPs) and liposome-embedded gold nanoparticles (LGNPs) were performed. The current study was conducted by inducing lung cancer chemically via repeated exposure to urethane in BALB/C mice. GNPs and LGNPs were exhibited in uniform spherical shape with adequate dispersion stability. GNPs and LGNPs showed no significant changes in comparison to control group with high safety profile, while TGNPs and LTGNPs succeed to improve all biochemical data and histological patterns. GNPs and LGNPs are promising drug carriers and succeeded in the delivery of small and efficient dose of temozolomide in treatment lung cancer. Antitumor activity was pronounced in animal-treated LTGNPs, these effects may be due to synergistic effects resulted from combination of temozolomide and gold nanoparticles and liposomes that may improve the drug distribution and penetration.

pui:26306192
Title:Aerodynamic separation of a salbutamol dry powder inhalation: Deposition of drug and excipient in a multistage liquid impinger
Authors:G. WarnkeD. KonigK.H. BauerM. Brandl
Absract:Particle size analysis is a key issue of quality assurance of pharmaceutical aerosols as it allows for prediction of the respirable fraction. Dry powder inhalations (DPI) usually contain a small amount of micronised active ingredient within a huge body of particulate excipient. Here a salbutamol DPI was characterised by optical and aerodynamic means. The overall particle size distribution as obtained by light microscopy was smooth and unimodal. In contrast aerodynamic fractionation using a multistage liquid impinger (MLI) as followed by simultaneous assay for both drug and carrier revealed their different deposition. The observed aerodynamic separation during aerosolisation is wanted for maximal delivery of drug to the lung and minimal irritation of the airways by particulates.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.12.020
Title:In vitro evaluation of powders for inhalation: The effect of drug concentration on particle detachment
Authors:V.N.P. LeT.H.H. ThiE. RobinsM.P. Flament
Absract:Limited information on the effect of the drug concentration on the performance of powders for inhalation is currently published. The aim of this work was to study the influence of drug concentration on the adhesion between drug and carrier and on the drug detachment from the carrier. The study was done with formoterol fumarate and fluticasone propionate blended with lactose Lactohale 200. To assess the adhesion of respirable-sized drug to carrier particles, a simple method was developed based on aspiration and considering the whole blend as it is used in dry powder inhalers. Adhesion characteristics were evaluated by submitting the mixtures to a sieving action by air depression with an Alpine air-jet sieve. Aerodynamic evaluation of fine particle dose and emitted dose was obtained using a Twin Stage Impinger (TSI). Drug concentration of powder blends used in dry powder inhalers influenced adhesion, content uniformity and in vitro deposition of the drug. For the higher concentration of formoterol, it seemed that a lower quantity of drug adhered to the lactose. This was confirmed by the aerosolization assays done in the TSI. The fine particle fraction increased linearly with the formoterol concentration. A correlation was observed between adhesion characteristics and inertial impaction. In the case of fluticasone, the influence of the concentration was different. First, the fine particle fraction increased with the concentration and then decreased with a further increase of the fluticasone concentration. This could be explained by the lack of homogeneity when the fluticasone concentration was high because of agglomerates of pure drug which can not be redispersed, or by the physico-chemical characteristics of this drug. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.15171/apb.2016.009
Title:Aggregated nanotransfersomal dry powder inhalation of itraconazole for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:M.H. AghdamS. GhanbarzadehY. JavadzadehH. Hamishehkar
Absract:Purpose: Local therapy is a valuable and strategic approach in the treatment of lung associated diseases and dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations play the key role in this plan. Transfersome has been introduced as a novel biocompatible vesicular system with potential for administration in pulmonary drug delivery. The present study was designed to prepare Itraconazole-loaded nanotrantransfersomal DPI formulation. Methods: Itraconazole-loaded nanotransfersomes with three different types of surfactant in varying concentrations were prepared and characterized in the point of particle size distribution and morphology by laser light scattering and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) methods. The optimized transferosomal formulations were co-spray dried with mannitol and the aerosolization efficiency and aerodynamic properties of dry powders were determined by next generation impactor using a validated HPLC technique. Results: The volume mean diameter of optimized nanotransfersomal formulation with lecithin:Span® 60 in the ratio of 90:10 was 171 nm with narrow size distribution pattern which increased up to 518 nm after drug loading. Different types of surfactant did not influence the particle size significantly. SEM images confirmed the formation of aggregated nanoparticles in the suitable range (1-5 μm) for the pulmonary drug delivery. Aerosolization evaluation of co-spray dried formulations with different amounts of mannitol indicated that 2:1 ratio of mannitol:transfersome (w:w) showed the best aerosolization efficiency (fine particle fraction (FPF)=37%). Increasing of mannitol significantly decreased the FPF of the optimized formulations. Conclusion: The results of this study was introduced the potential application of nanotransfersomes in the formulation of DPIs for lung delivery of various drugs.

pui:14212856
Title:Comparative efficacy of different methods of nebulising terbutaline
Authors:J.Z. PedersenA. Bundgaard
Absract:The efficacy of terbutaline inhaled from different aerosol systems was studied in 13 adult asthmatics. Terbutaline 1 mg was delivered from a pressurised aerosol, 1 and 4 mg were inhaled from a nebuliser, 1 mg was inhaled through a pressurised aerosol with a pear-shaped, 750 ml spacer, and 1 mg was inhaled from a nebuliser with Intermittent Positive Pressure Ventilation (I.P.P.V.). An open, randomized, cross-over design was used. The bronchodilator effect was evaluated by recording hourly flow-volume curves and the FEV@sub_begin1.0@sub_end for 5 h after treatment. No significant difference in bronchodilatation was observed after inhalation of 1 mg terbutaline from different aerosol systems, except following use of the nebuliser, which required approximately four times as much terbutaline to obtain the same effect as the ordinary spray.

pui:364640624
Title:Nebulization therapy - A novel approach to drug delivery system in Ayurveda
Authors:K.D. KumariJ.S. TripathiS.K. Tiwari
Absract:Several route of administration of drug have not only been described in Ayurvedic texts but also practiced for several millennia. Depending upon physical property of the drug it can be rubbed on the skin like lotion or it can be instilled in the form of drops like nasal (nasya)/ear (karnapurana) drop etc. It can be swallowed in the form of tablets and also it can be injected directly into the bloodstream. Similarly the medicines can also be administered through nasal route using nebulization technique or through meter dose inhalation. The process of Nebulization involves a suspension of fine vaporized liquid droplets--otherwise known as aerosol--to administer fluids, oxygen and liquid medication directly to the respiratory system. Nebulizers are commonly used for treatment of cystic fibrosis, asthma, COPD and other respiratory diseases. Breakthroughs in the treatment of Asthma came in light with the introduction of Inhalation therapy (Nebulization/Aerosol mode of drug administration) in the conventional medicine. There are several plus points for through-the-lung delivery of medication. The lungs have a large surface area, so that absorption is fast and ample. Lungs are quite tolerant to foreign substances like powders of tobacco, smoke, and fragrances of a hundred types by common men. Lungs are much more permeable than skin, nasal mucosa or the gastro-intestinal tract. This mode of administration proves to be highly beneficial in saving life in acute life threatening condition such as "Status Asthmatics" . But wide range of toxic side effects of modern medicine confines its use as permanent remedy. Administration of drug through nasal route is highly prevalent also in Ayurveda. Since ancient time Acharays very well knew the importance and effectiveness of this route as they had said that"Nasa hi Shirsodvaram" . There are numerous variety of drugs mentioned in Ayurvedic text which can be administered through Nasal route, namely Nasya and Dhumrapana.There is no direct evidence that drug given through Nasya and Dhumrapana acts similar to that given through Nebulization technique. According to the demand of time Ayurvedic science also requires some modification to become more permissive and harmonize with everincreasing diseases and their various presentations. Thus there is need to search Ayuurvedic formulations to be used for inhalation which are as effective as modern inhalation therapy and have least side effect and that can be useful in emergency condition. The clinical study was planned in two parts. The first part deals with preparation of drug, its standardization and antimicrobial study and second part deals with assessment of its efficacy in acute attack of Bronchial Asthma, and its comparison with the efficacy of modern medicine. The paper will discuss the method and material use for the preparation of Ayurvedic Nebulizer drug and its standardization.

doi:10.1183/2312508X.10019314
Title:Inhaled medication: Which device for which patient?
Authors:M. CazzolaP. Rogliani
Absract:Case history: A 50-year-old man is seen in the clinic with newly diagnosed COPD. He is referred for smoking cessation and pulmonary rehabilitation but you feel he will also benefit from an inhaled long-acting bronchodilator. What factors would you consider in choosing the optimal medication for this man, with specific regard to the range of inhaler devices now available? Chapter summary: Inhalation devices are a mainstay in the management of COPD. They include the pressurised metered-dose inhaler, dry powder inhaler, metered-dose inhaler with spacer, breath-actuated metered-dose inhaler, nebuliser and soft mist inhaler. Each type of device has its own advantages and disadvantages. The choice of device has to be tailored according to patient’s needs, situation and preference. Certain factors, such as the age of the subject, the cognitive and psychomotor deficits occurring with the ageing process as well as a COPD-specific cognitive impairment, the availability of the drug formulation, the clinical setting as well as the disease being treated, the patient’s ability to generate an adequate inspiratory flow, the capacity to handle the device appropriately and, importantly, its coordination with the inspiratory effort and the patient’s preference for a device affect choice for the individual patient. Unfortunately, guidelines provide limited guidance regarding choice of devices, likely because of the lack of robust clinical data that can be translated into guideline recommendations.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.03.002
Title:Solid dispersions of itraconazole for inhalation with enhanced dissolution, solubility and dispersion properties
Authors:C. DuretN. WauthozT. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:The purpose of this study was to produce a dry powder for inhalation (DPI) of a poorly soluble active ingredient (itraconazole: ITZ) that would present an improved dissolution rate and enhanced solubility with good aerosolization properties. Solid dispersions of amorphous ITZ, mannitol and, when applicable, d-α-tocopherol polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS) were produced by spray-drying hydro-alcoholic solutions in which all agents were dissolved. These dry formulations were characterized in terms of their aerosol performances and their dissolution, solubility and physical properties. Modulate differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray powder diffraction analyses showed that ITZ recovered from the different spray-dried solutions was in an amorphous state and that mannitol was crystalline. The inlet drying temperature and, indirectly, the outlet temperature selected during the spray-drying were critical parameters. The outlet temperature should be below the ITZ glass transition temperature to avoid severe particle agglomeration. The formation of a solid dispersion between amorphous ITZ and mannitol allowed the dry powder to be produced with an improved dissolution rate, greater saturation solubility than bulk ITZ and good aerosol properties. The use of a polymeric surfactant (such as TPGS) was beneficial in terms of dissolution rate acceleration and solubility enhancement, but it also reduced aerosol performance. For example, significant dissolution rate acceleration (f@sub_begin2@sub_end < 50) and greater saturation solubility were obtained when introducing 1% (w/w) TPGS (mean dissolution time dropped from 50.4 min to 36.9 min and saturation solubility increased from 20 ± 3 ng/ml to 46 ± 2 ng/ml). However, the fine particle fraction dropped from 47 ± 2% to 37.2 ± 0.4%. This study showed that mannitol solid dispersions may provide an effective formulation type for producing DPIs of poorly soluble active ingredients, as exemplified by ITZ. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:616704140
Title:Stability of Ribavirin for Inhalation Packaged in Syringes or Glass Vials when Stored Frozen, Refrigerated, and at Room Temperature
Authors:B. LarsonL.R. BushmanM.L. CascianoA.R. OldlandJ.J. KiserT.H. Kiser
Absract:The primary aim of this study was to investigate ribavirin solution for inhalation stability under three different conditions (frozen, refrigerated, room temperature) over a 45-day period. A ribavirin 6000-mg vial was reconstituted with 90 mL of Sterile Water for Injection per the package insert to yield a concentration of approximately 67 mg/mL. The solution was then placed in either syringes or empty glass vials and stored in the freezer (-20°C), in the refrigerator (~0°C to 4°C), or at room temperature (~20°C to 25°C). Original concentrations were measured on day 0 and subsequent concentrations were measured on day 2, 14, and 45 utilizing a validated liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry assay. All analyses were performed in triplicate for each storage condition. Additionally, at each time point the physical stability was evaluated and the pH of solution was measured. The solution was considered stable if =90% of the original concentration was retained over the study period. A validated liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry analysis demonstrated that &gt;95% of the original ribavirin concentration was preserved over the 45-day period for all study conditions. The ribavirin concentration remained within the United States Pharmacopeia (USP)-required range of 95% to 105% of the original labeled product amount throughout the entire study period for all study conditions. Precipitation of ribavirin was noted during the thawing cycle for frozen samples, but the drug went back into solution once the thawing process was completed. No changes in color or turbidity were observed in any of the prepared solutions. Values for pH remained stable over the study period and ranged from 4.1 to 5.3. Ribavirin for inhalation solution is physically and chemically stable for at least 45 days when frozen, refrigerated, or kept at room temperature after reconstitution to a concentration of approximately 67 mg/mL and placed in syringes or glass vials.

doi:10.2165/00126839-200405030-00005
Title:Formoterol dry-powder inhalation - Novartis/SkyePharma: Foradil MDDPI, Foradil MDPI, Foradil SkyeHaler, formoterol fumarate dry-powder inhalation
Authors:B. LarsonL.R. BushmanM.L. CascianoA.R. OldlandJ.J. KiserT.H. Kiser
Absract:In November 1998, Novartis Pharma of Switzerland and SkyePharma PLC of the UK signed an agreement to jointly develop a new formulation of the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonist formoterol (Foradil®). The new product, Foradil® Certihaler™, utilises a multidose dry-powder inhaler (MDPI or MDDPI) device, SkyeHaler™, developed by SkyePharma. It also utilises SkyePharma's SkyeProtect™ powder formulation technology, which protects the drug from moisture. The product is waiting for approval for the treatment of asthma. Foradil® MDPI may also have potential for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Novartis has stated that Foradil® Certihaler™ offers certainty of dosing and dose confirmation, and will also contain a dose counter that indicates the number of doses left. SkyePharma is responsible for development of the product in its finished form; this includes the supply of both the powder and the inhalation device as a product to Novartis. The product is manufactured at SkyePharma's Lyon facility in France. SkyePharma is receiving fees, development costs and milestone payments from Novartis. SkyePharma will also receive royalty income on worldwide sales. SkyePharma has granted Novartis an exclusive worldwide licence to market Foradil® MDPI. Foradil® Certihaler™ was approved in Switzerland in March 2004. This is the first approval in Europe, and will trigger an undisclosed milestone payment by Novartis to SkyePharma. Submissions for regulatory approval in the asthma indication were filed in the EU (on a country-by-country basis) and the US in December 2002. On 22 October 2003, SkyePharma announced that the US FDA had issued an 'approvable' letter for Foradil® Certihaler™. Launch of the product is anticipated for 2004. Clinical trials of Foradil® MDPI for the treatment of asthma began in October 1999. In December 2000, phase III trials commenced in Europe. SkyePharma stated in April 2001 that phase III trials had commenced recently in the US. SkyePharma estimated in April 2001 that the worldwide sales potential of Foradil® MDPI could be as much as $US600 million. SkyePharma anticipates receiving royalties and manufacturing revenues of more than 10%. © 20O4 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1080/08958370490258381
Title:A Novel Method to Aerosolize Powder for Short Inhalation Exposures at High Concentrations: Isolated Rat Lungs Exposed to Respirable Diesel Soot
Authors:P. GerdeP. EwingL. LåstbomÅ. RyrfeldtJ. WaherG. Lidén
Absract:More efficient methods are needed to aerosolize dry powders for short-duration inhalation exposures at high concentrations. There is an increasing need to reach the peripheral lung with dry powder medications as well as with collected ambient aerosol particulates in environmental research projects. In a novel aerosol generator, a fixed volume of compressed air was used to create a short burst of a highly concentrated aerosol in a 300-ml holding chamber. Collected diesel soot was deagglomerated to a fine aerosol with a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 0.55 μm, not much larger than the 0.25 μm MMAD of diesel exhaust particles measured in air. A fine powder such as 3-μm silica particles was completely deagglomerated to an aerosol with a MMAD of 3.5 μm. Immediately after generation, the aerosol was available for exposure at a chosen flow rate by the use of an automated valve system. Tritium-labeled diesel soot was thus used to expose the isolated perfused rat lung at an air concentration of ∼3 mg/L and a flow rate of 370 ml/min in a 1-min-long exposure. The lungs were ventilated at 75 breaths/min and a tidal volume of 1.13 ± 0.11 mi (SD, n = 3). Results showed that 19.8 ± 1.1 μg (SD, n = 3) soot was deposited in the lungs. This amount constitutes 9.5% of the amount inhaled and is close to literature data on deposition of similar sized particles in the rat lung. More than 97% of the deposited soot was located distal to the extrapulmonary bronchi, indicating that the system delivers a highly respirable aerosol. The aerosol system is particularly useful for peripheral lung delivery of collected ambient aerosols or dry powder pharmaceuticals following a minimal effort in formulation of the powder.

doi:10.1517/14656566.8.4.467
Title:Tobramycin solution for inhalation in cystic fibrosis patients: A review of the literature
Authors:J.K. HagermanS.A. KnechtelM.E. Klepser
Absract:Cystic fibrosis patients suffer increased sputum production and a notable decline in respiratory function throughout the progression of their disease. Patients are left vulnerable to respiratory colonization/ infection from a number of pathogens, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. At present, the only antibiotic formulation that is FDA approved for aerosolized delivery is tobramycin solution for inhalation (TSI). TSI allows for targeted antibiotic delivery to the lungs and is indicated for maintenance therapy in cystic fibrosis patients infected with P. aeruginosa. Studies demonstrate that cyclical treatment with TSI is associated with an increase in respiratory function and a decrease in sputum density in cystic fibrosis patients. Additional benefits include fewer hospitalizations and a decreased need for systemic antibiotics. However, because of the need for chronic administration, issues such as emergence of resistant organisms and toxicity are a potential concern and have also been evaluated. This review details the pharmacology of TSI and literature involving its use in cystic fibrosis patients. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

pui:600081224
Title:Formulation, Evaluation and Solid-State thermographic characterization of cfc free beclometasone dipropionate pressurized metered dose inhalation
Authors:P. SnigdhaN. ParthaM. LaxmidharP. Lalatendu
Absract:Objective: In view of the aim, the objective of the present work was to develop a solution based pulmonary drug delivery system containing Beclometasone dipropionate 250mcg using a Hydrofluoroalkane (HFA 134a and HFA 227ea), a non-chlorofluorocarbon, as propellant to be administered as pressurized metered dose inhalation (pMDI) for direct and targeted delivery of the drug to the lungs and to evaluate the effect of formulation variables on its efficacy and stability.

doi:10.3109/1061186X.2011.622404
Title:Innovative strategy for treatment of lung cancer: Targeted nanotechnology-based inhalation co-delivery of anticancer drugs and siRNA
Authors:O. TaratulaO.B. GarbuzenkoA.M. ChenT. Minko
Absract:A tumor targeted mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN)-based drug delivery system (DDS) was developed for inhalation treatment of lung cancer. The system was capable of effectively delivering inside cancer cells anticancer drugs (doxorubicin and cisplatin) combined with two types of siRNA targeted to MRP1 and BCL2 mRNA for suppression of pump and nonpump cellular resistance in non-small cell lung carcinoma, respectively. Targeting of MSN to cancer cells was achieved by the conjugation of LHRH peptide on the surface of MSN via poly(ethylene glycol) spacer. The delivered anticancer drugs and siRNA preserved their specific activity leading to the cell death induction and inhibition of targeted mRNA. Suppression of cellular resistance by siRNA effectively delivered inside cancer cells and substantially enhanced the cytotoxicity of anticancer drugs. Local delivery of MSN by inhalation led to the preferential accumulation of nanoparticles in the mouse lungs, prevented the escape of MSN into the systemic circulation, and limited their accumulation in other organs. The experimental data confirm that the developed DDS satisfies the major prerequisites for effective treatment of non-small cell lung carcinoma. Therefore, the proposed cancer-targeted MSN-based system for complex delivery of drugs and siRNA has high potential in the effective treatment of lung cancer. © 2011 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.03.021
Title:Formulation design and in vivo evaluation of dry powder inhalation system of new vasoactive intestinal peptide derivative ([R@sup_begin15, 20, 21@sup_end, L @sup_begin17@sup_end, A@sup_begin24,25@sup_end, des-N@sup_begin28@sup_end]-VIP-GRR) in experimental asthma/COPD model rats
Authors:S. OnoueY. AokiT. MatsuiY. KojoS. MisakaT. MizumotoS. Yamada
Absract:Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) has been considered as a promising drug candidate for asthma and COPD because of its potent immunomodulating and anti-inflammatory activities. Recently, our group developed a new VIP derivative, [R@sup_begin15, 20, 21@sup_end, L@sup_begin17@sup_end, A@sup_begin24,25@sup_end, des-N@sup_begin28@sup_end]-VIP-GRR (IK312548), with improved chemical and metabolic stability. In the present study, a dry powder inhaler system of IK312548 was designed for inhalation therapy with minimal systemic side effects, the physicochemical properties of which were also evaluated with a focus on morphology, particle size distribution, inhalation performance, and peptide stability. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis suggested high dispersion and deposition in the respiratory organs with a fine particle fraction of 31.2%. According to UPLC/ESI-MS and circular dichroic spectral analyses, no significant changes in the purity and structure of VIP derivative were observed during preparation of respirable formulation. Anti-inflammatory properties of IK312548 respirable powder (RP) were characterized in antigen-sensitized asthma/COPD-model rats. There were marked inflammatory cells infiltrated into the lung tissues of experimental asthma/COPD-model rats; however, intratracheal administration of IK312548-RP led to significant reductions of recruited inflammatory cells in lung tissues and BALF by 72 and 78%, respectively. Thus, respirable powder formulation of IK312548 might be a promising medication for asthma, COPD, and other airway inflammatory diseases. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1211/jpp.59.7.0003
Title:Physical characteristics and aerosolization performance of insulin dry powders for inhalation prepared by a spray drying method
Authors:Y. YouM. ZhaoG. LiuX. Tang
Absract:The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of formulation excipients on the physical characteristics and aerosolization performance of insulin dry powders for inhalation. Insulin dry powders were prepared by a spray drying technique using excipients such as sugars (trehalose, lactose and dextran), mannitol and amino acids (L-leucine, glycine and threonine). High performance liquid chromatography and the mouse blood glucose method were used for determination of the insulin content. The powder properties were determined and compared by scanning electron microscopy, thermo-gravimetric analysis and size distribution analysis by a time-of-flight technique. The in-vitro aerosolization behaviour of the powders was assessed with an Aerolizer inhaler using a twin-stage impinger. Powder yield and moisture absorption were also determined. Results showed that there was no noticeable change in insulin content in any of the formulations by both assay methods. All powders were highly wrinkled, with median aerodynamic diameters of 2-4 μm, and consequently suitable for pulmonary administration. The tapped density was reduced dramatically when glycine was added. The powders containing mannitol, with or without L-leucine, were less sensitive to moisture. The highest respirable fraction of 67.3 ± 1.3% was obtained with the formulation containing L-leucine, in contrast to formulations containing glycine and threonine, which had a respirable fraction of 11.2 ± 3.9% and 23.5 ± 2.5%, respectively. In addition, powders with good physical properties were achieved by the combination of insulin and trehalose. This study suggests that L-leucine could be used to enhance the aerosolization behaviour of the insulin dry powders for inhalation, and trehalose could potentially be used as an excipient in the formulations. © 2007 The Authors.

pui:32963851
Title:Paclitaxel liposome aerosol treatment induces inhibition of pulmonary metastases in murine renal carcinoma model
Authors:N.V. KoshkinaJ.C. WaldrepL.E. RobertsE. GolunskiS. MeltonV. Knight
Absract:The present studies were undertaken to evaluate the pulmonary pharmacokinetics and therapeutic efficacy of paclitaxel (PTX) administered by aerosol. PTX was encapsulated into dilauroylphosphatidylcholine liposomal formulations (PTX-DLPC). The deposition and clearance of PTX-DLPC in the lungs administered by aerosol or i.v. at comparative doses was performed, and PTX was quantitatively determined in tissue extracts by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. The murine renal carcinoma (Renca) pulmonary metastases model was used to determine the therapeutic effect of drug formulation administered by aerosol. PTX-DLPC aerosols were generated with the Aero-Mist jet nebulizer (cis-USA). The most effective schedule of treatment was when mice inhaled the drug for 30 min 3 days per week. There was a significant reduction of the lung weights and reduced number of visible tumor foci on the lung surfaces of mice treated with PTX aerosol (P<0.004 and P<0.01, respectively) compared with control groups. Inhalation of PTX-DLPC also led to prolonged survival in mice inoculated with Renca cells. The results of the present studies demonstrate the therapeutic potential of aerosol technology for lung cancer treatment.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120608
Title:Co-spray dried hydrophobic drug formulations with crystalline lactose for inhalation aerosol delivery
Authors:W.-R. KeP.C.L. KwokD. KhanalR.Y.K. ChangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Spray drying is a rapid method for converting a liquid feed into dried particles for inhalation aerosols. Lactose is a major inhalation excipient used in spray-dried (SD) formulations. However, SD powders produced from solutions are usually amorphous hence unstable to moisture. This problem can potentially be minimized by spray drying a suspension (instead of solution) containing crystalline lactose particles and dissolved drugs. In the present study, the suspension formulation containing dissolved budesonide (BUD) or rifampicin (RIF) and suspended lactose crystals in isopropanol alcohol (IPA) were produced. For comparison, powders were also produced from solution formulations containing the same proportions of drug and lactose dissolved in 50:50 IPA/water as controls. These SD powders were stored at 25 °C/60% RH and 40 °C/75% RH for six months. The particulate properties and in vitro dispersion performance were examined at various storage time points. All powders obtained from spray drying of solutions recrystallized after one week of storage at 25 °C/60% RH. In contrast, SD BUD-lactose obtained from suspension did not change until after three-months of storage when the particle size increased gradually with morphology change and yet the crystallinity remained the same as determined by X-ray powder diffraction. For the SD RIF-lactose obtained from suspension, both particulate properties and in vitro powder dispersion performance showed no significant difference before and after storage at both storage conditions. To conclude, this is the first study to show that SD powder formulations obtained from suspensions containing lactose crystals demonstrated superior storage stability performance, which is desirable for inhaled powders.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(01)00705-0
Title:Dry powder inhalation of liposomal Ketotifen fumarate: Formulation and characterization
Authors:M. JoshiA. Misra
Absract:The purpose of the experiment was to formulate and characterize the dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulation of liposomally entrapped anti-asthmatic drug, Ketotifen fumarate (KF). Liposomes composed of saturated egg phosphatidyl choline (EPC) and cholesterol (CHOL) were prepared by lipid film hydration and sonicated to have the desired size ( < 5 μm). Process variable such as vacuum, presonication hydration, postsonication hydration, purification and lamellae composition, were optimized for encapsulation efficiency of KF. Liposomal dispersion was blended with cryoprotectant (sugar) in varying bulk and mass ratios and assessed for its influence on retention of encapsulated drug on lyophilization. Characterization of liposomal dispersion was done for size, lamellarity, entrapped volume and oxidation index. DPI formulation was characterized for angle of repose, compressibility index, dispersibility and respirable fraction (British Pharmacopoeia, apparatus A). Process optimization revealed that a vacuum, 20 in.; presonication hydration, 60 min; postsonication hydration, 2 h and purification by dialysis gave maximum encapsulation efficiency. Sucrose was found to be the most suitable cryoprotectant at bulk strength of 500 mM and mass ratio of lipid/sugar, 1/12. Blending of sorbolac before lyophilization showed better retention of encapsulated KF (97.92 ± 0.54%). In the preparation of sonicated MLVs, the presence of nitrogen atmosphere, α-tocopherol and EDTA could not totally eliminate EPC oxidation, expressed as the change in oxidation index from 0.427 ± 0.01 to 1.510 ± 0.01. The respirable fraction of the developed formulation (21.59 ± 1.53%) is comparable with the control (26.49 ± 1.52%). From studies, it may be concluded that an optimal bulk and mass ratio of sucrose, relative to the size of liposomes is necessary for effective cryoprotection. In this investigation, DPI of liposomal KF was successfully prepared and delivered to the required site in the lungs. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.2174/1389200221999201111193910
Title:Pharmacokinetic research progress of anti-tumor drugs targeting for pulmonary administration
Authors:M. ZhaoZ. JingL. ZhouH. ZhaoQ. DuZ. Sun
Absract:Background: Cancer is a major problem that threatens human survival and has a high mortality rate. The traditional chemotherapy methods are mainly intravenous injection and oral administration, but have obvious toxic and side effects. Antitumor drugs for pulmonary administration can enhance drug targeting, increase local drug concentration, and reduce the damage to systemic organs, especially for the treatment of lung cancer. Methods: The articles on the pharmacokinetics of antitumor drugs targeting pulmonary administration were retrieved from the Pub Med database. This article mainly took lung cancer as an example and summarized the pharmacokinetic characteristics of antitumor drugs targeting for pulmonary administration contained in nano-particles, dendrimers, liposomes and micelles. Results: The review shows that the pharmacokinetics process of pulmonary administration is associated with a drug carrier by increasing the deposition and release of drugs in the lung, and retarding the lung clearance rate. Among them, the surface of dendrimers could be readily modified, and polymer micelles have favorable loading efficiency. In the case of inhalation administration, liposomes exhibit more excellent lung retention properties compared to other non-lipid carriers. Therefore, the appropriate drug carrier is instrumental to increase the curative effect of antitumor drugs and reduce the toxic effect on surrounding healthy tissues or organs. Conclusion: In the process of pulmonary administration, the carrier-embedded antitumor drugs have the characteristics of targeted and sustained release compared with non-packaging drugs, which provides a theoretical basis for the clinical rational formulation of chemotherapy regimens. However, there is currently a lack of comparative research between drug packaging materials, and more importantly, the development of safe and effective antitumor drugs targeting for pulmonary administration requires more data.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2017.1287719
Title:Co-milled API-lactose systems for inhalation therapy: impact of magnesium stearate on physico-chemical stability and aerosolization performance
Authors:M. LauP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Context: Particle micronization for inhalation can impart surface disorder (amorphism) of crystalline structures. This can lead to stability issues upon storage at elevated humidity from recrystallization of the amorphous state, which can subsequently affect the aerosol performance of the dry powder formulation. Objective: The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of an additive, magnesium stearate (MGST), on the stability and aerosol performance of co-milled active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) with lactose. Methods: Blends of API-lactose with/without MGST were prepared and co-milled by the jet-mill apparatus. Samples were stored at 50% relative humidity (RH) and 75% RH for 1, 5, and 15 d. Analysis of changes in particle size, agglomerate structure/strength, moisture sorption, and aerosol performance were analyzed by laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), dynamic vapor sorption (DVS), and in-vitro aerodynamic size assessment by impaction. Results: Co-milled formulation with MGST (5% w/w) led to a reduction in agglomerate size and strength after storage at elevated humidity compared with co-milled formulation without MGST, as observed from SEM and laser diffraction. Hysteresis in the sorption/desorption isotherm was observed in the co-milled sample without MGST, which was likely due to the recrystallization of the amorphous regions of micronized lactose. Deterioration in aerosol performance after storage at elevated humidity was greater for the co-milled samples without MGST, compared with co-milled with MGST. Conclusion: MGST has been shown to have a significant impact on co-milled dry powder stability after storage at elevated humidity in terms of physico-chemical properties and aerosol performance.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2015.993968
Title:Pulmonary delivery of anti-inflammatory agents
Authors:M.E. AliJ.T. McConvilleA. Lamprecht
Absract:Introduction: Respiratory infections and diseases are accompanied by or exhibit inflammation. Recent advances in nanoparticle engineering technology, together with the increased knowledge of inflammatory pathophysiology, have ignited interest in the pulmonary delivery of anti-inflammatory agents (AIAs) to achieve local treatment of pulmonary inflammatory disorders.Areas covered: This review summarizes and discusses the investigated formulation approaches for the pulmonary delivery of AIAs, including: inhalation of actives as suspensions or dry powder formulations, with polymeric micro- and nano-delivery carriers, or within liposomes and lipid nanoparticles. Some recent approaches for targeting AIAs to the pulmonary endothelium have also been reviewed. The discussion focuses on finding out whether the investigated approaches were really able to achieve lung targeting and reduce the side effects associated with the systemic administration of AIAs.Expert opinion: The use of the inhalation route for the pulmonary delivery of AIAs is facing several challenges. Some of the investigated formulation approaches appear to be promising in overcoming these challenges. However, in order to create products that reach patients, more therapeutically oriented studies are still needed to ensure formulation stability, in-vivo sustained release behavior, pulmonary retention, and bypassing lung clearance mechanisms.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.09.018
Title:Nano-salbutamol dry powder inhalation: A new approach for treating broncho-constrictive conditions
Authors:BhavnaF.J. AhmadG. MittalG.K. JainG. MalhotraR.K. KharA. Bhatnagar
Absract:Nanoparticle DPI is known to have deeper lung penetration but its clinical utility as a potentially better treatment option needs to be evaluated in the light of higher expected mucociliary movement of the nanoparticles compared to micronized DPI. The objective of this study was to make nano-salbutamol sulphate (SBS) DPI, radiolabel it with Tc-99m using a novel surface labeling methodology, characterize the formulation and assess its in vitro and in vivo deposition in healthy human volunteers to estimate its bioavailability in the target area. Nano-SBS with a mean particle of 60.71 ± 35.99 nm was produced using liquid anti-solvent precipitation method. The drug particles were spherical, pure and crystalline. Anderson cascade impaction showed that blend formulations of Nano-SBS exhibited significantly higher respirable fraction of 45.2% compared to the known behavior of micronized salbutamol sulphate blends. Though the particle size tended to increase due to solid phase interaction after blending with lactose, there was definitive correlation between the radiolabeled and non-radiolabeled forms. In 10 healthy volunteers, lower oropharyngeal depositions (25.3 ± 4.5%) were observed with nano-SBS formulation compared to micronized SBS formulation (58.4 ± 6.1%). Furthermore, Nano-SBS formulations showed nearly 2.3-fold increase in total lung deposition compared to micronized SBS. The in vivo deposition data and the ratio of peripheral to central lung deposition (P/C) of 1.12 ± 0.4 indicate that Nano-SBS is evenly distributed within different lung regions. As demonstrated for SBS, nano-sizing may enhance regional deposition and thus provide an attractive particle engineering option for the development of blend formulations for inhalation delivery. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:25142139
Title:Medical aerosol inhalers: Past, present, and future
Authors:A.R. Clark
Absract:The need to deliver pharmaceutical molecules to the respiratory tract has lead to the development of three major types of medical aerosol inhalers: The nebulizer, invented around the turn of the century, which uses aqueous solutions as its atomization substrate: the pressurized metered dose inhaler, invented in the mid-1950s, which uses a finely divided drug in a chlorofluorocarbon propellant suspension; and the dry powder inhaler, first commercialized in the early 1960s, which uses a powdered drug form. In general, these dosage forms have served the medical and patient community well, but recent advances in protein chemistry and the ozone depletion issues related to CFC propellants have lead to a renewed interest in the development of more efficient non-CFC inhalers. This article discusses the history of medical inhaler device technology and highlights the new technologies which may replace some of the existing delivery systems.

doi:10.1016/0142-9612(85)90074-2
Title:The use of short carbon fibre reinforced thermoplastic plates for fracture fixation
Authors:N. GillettS.A. BrownJ.H. DumbletonR.P. Pool
Absract:Thermoplastic plates of Nylon 6-10 and Polybutylene terephthalate reinforced with 30% short randomly oriented carbon fibres were tested for internal fixation of canine femoral transverse midshaft fractures. The elastic modulus of the plates was one-half that of bone: however, ultimate strength and strain in bending were comparable to bone. The fractures healed with moderate callus formation which was completely remodelled by 8 to 12 wk post surgery. Although a moderate inflammatory reaction to occasional particulate debris was noted, the materials appeared to posses the proper elastic moduli to allow sufficient support for the healing fracture without protecting the remodelling process.

doi:10.1002/jps.20933
Title:The influence of mechanical processing of dry powder inhaler carriers on drug aerosolization performance
Authors:P.M. YoungH.-K. ChanH. ChiouS. EdgeT.H.S. TeeD. Traini
Absract:The influence of processing on the performance of carrier material used in dry powder inhalers was investigated. α-Lactose monohydrate crystals were processed by ball milling for cumulative time durations and their properties evaluated. As expected, milling reduced the median particle diameter while increasing fine particulate (< 10 μm) and amorphous levels. Recrystallization of these partially amorphous samples resulted in a reduction in fines, elimination of amorphous material with little change in median diameter. To study the effects of processing on aerosolization performance, blends of lactose monohydrate with a model drug (nedocromil sodium trihydrate), were evaluated using an in vitro multistage liquid impinger (MSLI) model. In general, milling and storage of the carriers at high humidity (prior to blending) had a significant (ANOVA, p < 0.05) effect on the fine particle fractions (FPF; <6.8 μm). These effects were attributed predominantly to the fines content, showing a strong correlation between increased fines and FPF (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.974 and 0.982 for milled and recrystallized samples, respectively). However, this relationship only existed up to 15% fines concentration, after which agglomerate-carrier segregation was observed and FPF decreased significantly. These results suggest that, after processing, high-dose drug formulation performance is dominated by the presence of fines. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2019.04.001
Title:Tadalafil nanocomposites as a dry powder formulation for inhalation, a new strategy for pulmonary arterial hypertension treatment
Authors:R. Teymouri RadS. DadashzadehA. VatanaraS. AlaviE. GhasemianS.A. Mortazavi
Absract:Tadalafil (a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor) is a choice for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) that is known as an increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressure ≥25 mmHg at rest and ≥30 mmHg during exercise with reduced cardiac output. The aim of this study was to prepare inhalable tadalafil nanocomposites as a dry powder formulation by spray drying technique for increasing bioavailability and treatment efficacy, as well as decreasing systemic side effects. The D-optimal design was used for optimization of formulation parameters. Microparticle size, morphology, crystallinity, density, solubility, redispersion (%), and in-vitro inhalation performance of tadalafil nanocomposites were investigated as physicochemical characteristics. Pharmacokinetic parameters were also evaluated in plasma and lung tissue of Wistar rats after intratracheal insufflation and compared with a control group receiving an oral tadalafil marketed product (dose = 10 mg/kg). The suggested optimum formulation contained stable amorphous particles with almost rounded shape and corrugated surface that were completely redispersed in the lung simulated medium with the mass median geometric diameter of 3.2 μm, density of 1.4 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end, fine particle fraction based on emitted dose (%) of 57.2 ± 6.5%, and 13.7-fold enhancement in dissolution rate. In-vivo studies showed that the ratio of AUC@sub_begin0–24h lung@sub_end/AUC@sub_begin0–24h plasma@sub_end, achieved in the treated group after intratracheal insufflation, was significantly higher than the control group that means high local drug concentration and more efficacy. Besides, plasma data analysis indicated high value of MRT (2.3-fold) and t@sub_beginmax@sub_end (3.7-fold) after intratracheal insufflation of tadalafil nanocomposites in comparison with the conventional oral route, indicating longer retention of tadalafil molecules in the lungs and their slower entry to the systemic blood circulation. In conclusion, it seems that inhalable tadalafil nanocomposites can be introduced as an alternative to oral tadalafil in the treatment of PAH.

pui:622965792
Title:Efficacy of inhaled amikacin and fosfomycin in a rat model of acute pseudomonas-induced pneumonia
Authors:M.C. McElroyA.T. MarsdenS.K. GandiP. SmithX. LiS. BeckA. Montgomery
Absract:RATIONALE Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a major cause of ventilator acquired pneumonia (VAP) and a risk factor for Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Rapid treatment of infection after diagnosis is important to prevent mortalities and the inhaled route of delivery targets the lung parenchyma while limiting systemic exposure. The objective of this study was to determine whether inhalation of the combination antibiotic formulation (Amikacin:Fosfomycin at ratio of 5:2 mg basis) reduced clinical signs and the number of viable bacteria (CFUs) in a rat model of Pseudomonas pneumonia. METHODS Male SD rats (n = 5 per group) were administered a clinical strain of P. aeruginosa (MIC > 32 mg/L for Amikacin) directly to the lungs by oropharyngeal aspiration (T = 0h); animals where monitored for 6hs. Body temperatures were recorded every 30 mins and CFUs were determined at the end of the study. Animals were exposed to inhaled antibiotic in a flow past inhalation chamber at 1h post administration of pseudomonas. Test aerosol concentrations were determined by chemical analysis and a Marple Cascade impactor was used to determine the MMAD of test aerosol. Pseudomonas/Vehicle controls were exposed to vehicle alone (sterile water). RESULTS Estimated achieved inhalation lung doses ranged between 8.46 mg/kg to 84.3 mg/kg (total antibiotic administered) and test aerosols were respirable to rats (ie MMAD 2.35 μm for amikacin and 3.16 μm for fosfomycin)(Table 1). Group mean body temperatures were reduced in Pseudomonas/Vehicle controls at 2h post dose compared with pretrial values (Table 1). However, inhaled antibiotic prevented this reduction in body temperature in a dose-dependent manner (Table 1). Group mean lungs CFUs were also reduced in a dosedependent manner in antibiotic treated animals in comparison with the Pseduomonas/Vehicle (Table 1). The administration of vehicle (either sterile water or saline) did not effect Pseudomonasinduced changes in body temperatures or final lung CFUs. CONCLUSIONS Administration of inhaled combination antibiotic treatment (Amikacin/Fosfomycin,84 mg/kg, 5:2 ratio) significantly reduced lung CFUs and improved body temperatures in a rat model of acute pneumonia caused by a clinical strain of Pseudomonas. These data demonstrate that inhaled antibiotics may have therapeutic benefit for VAP. (Table Presented) .

doi:10.1089/jamp.2013.1076
Title:The evolution of spacers and valved holding chambers
Authors:K. NikanderC. NichollsJ. DenyerJ. Pritchard
Absract:Spacers and valved holding chambers (VHCs) are pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) accessory devices, designed to overcome problems that patients commonly experience when administering aerosol via a pMDI. Spacers were developed in direct response to patient-related issues with pMDI technique, particularly, poor coordination between actuation and inhalation, and local side-effects arising from oropharyngeal deposition. Current clinical guidelines indicate the need for widespread prescription and use of spacers, but, despite their apparent ubiquity, the devices themselves are, unfortunately, all too commonly «disused» by patients. An understanding of the background from which spacers developed, and the key factors influencing the optimization of the spacer and the later VHC, is crucial to developing an appreciation of the potential of these devices, both contemporary and future, for improving the delivery of pressurized aerosols to patients. This review, informed by a full patent search and an extensive scientific literature review, takes into account the clinical and laboratory evidence, commercial developments, and the sometimes serendipitous details of scientific anecdotes to form a comprehensive perspective on the evolution of spacers, from their origins, in the early days of the pMDI, up to the present day. © 2014, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12070645
Title:Automated filling equipment allows increase in the maximum dose to be filled in the cyclops® high dose dry powder inhalation device while maintaining dispersibility
Authors:I. SibumP. HagedoornC.O. BottermanH.W. FrijlinkF. Grasmeijer
Absract:In recent years there has been increasing interest in the pulmonary delivery of high dose dry powder drugs, such as antibiotics. Drugs in this class need to be dosed in doses far over 2.5 mg, and the use of excipients should therefore be minimized. To our knowledge, the effect of the automatic filling of high dose drug formulations on the maximum dose that can be filled in powder inhalers, and on the dispersion behavior of the powder, have not been described so far. In this study, we aimed to investigate these effects after filling with an Omnidose, a vacuum drum filler. Furthermore, the precision and accuracy of the filling process were investigated. Two formulations were used—an isoniazid formulation we reported previously and an amikacin formulation. Both formulations could be precisely and accurately dosed in a vacuum pressure range of 200 to 600 mbar. No change in dispersion was seen after automatic filling. Retention was decreased, with an optimum vacuum pressure range found from 400 to 600 mbar. The nominal dose for amikacin was 57 mg, which resulted in a fine particle dose of 47.26 ± 1.72 mg. The nominal dose for isoniazid could be increased to 150 mg, resulting in a fine particle dose of 107.35 ± 13.52 mg. These findings may contribute to the understanding of the upscaling of high dose dry powder inhalation products.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.118524
Title:Pulmonary delivery of Nanocomposite Microparticles (NCMPs) incorporating miR-146a for treatment of COPD
Authors:A. MohamedA.Y. PekozK. RossG.A. HutcheonI.Y. Saleem
Absract:The treatment and management of COPD by inhalation to the lungs has emerged as an attractive alternative route to oral dosing due to higher concentrations of the drug being administered to site of action. In this study, Nanocomposite Microparticles (NCMPs) of microRNA (miR-146a) containing PGA-co-PDL nanoparticles (NPs) for dry powder inhalation were formulated using L-leucine and mannitol. The spray-drying (Buchi B290) process was optimised and used to incorporate NPs into NCMPs using mix of L-leucine and mannitol excipients in different ratios (F1; 100:0% w/w, F2; 75:25% w/w, F3; 50:50% w/w, F4; 25:75% w/w, F5; 0:100% w/w) to investigate yield %, moisture content, aerosolisation performance and miR-146a biological activity. The optimum condition was performed at feed rate 0.5 ml/min, aspirator rate 28 m@sup_begin3@sup_end/h, atomizing air flow rate 480 L/h, and inlet drying temperature 70 °C which produced highest yield percentage and closest recovered NPs size to original prior spray-drying. The optimum formulation (F4) had a high yield (86.0 ± 15.01%), recovered NPs size after spray-drying 409.7 ± 10.05 nm (initial NPs size 244.8 ± 4.40 nm) and low moisture content (2.02 ± 0.03%). The aerosolisation performance showed high Fine Particle Fraction (FPF) 51.33 ± 2.9%, Emitted Dose (ED) of 81.81 ± 3.0%, and the mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) was ≤5 µm suggesting a deposition in the respirable region of the lungs. The biological activity of miR-146a was preserved after spray-drying process and miR-146a loaded NCMPs produced target genes IRAK1 and TRAF6 silencing. These results indicate the optimal process parameters for the preparation of NCMPs of miR-146a-containing PGA-co-PDL NPs suitable for inhalation in the treatment and management of COPD.

doi:10.3109/01480545.2011.648327
Title:Regulatory toxicology considerations for the development of inhaled pharmaceuticals
Authors:K. Owen
Absract:The preclinical safety studies required to support the development of inhaled drugs are generally the same as for other routes of administration. Repeat-dose toxicology studies should be conducted by inhalation to ensure the characterization of both the local (i.e., respiratory) and systemic toxicity, although some studies (e.g., reproductive) can be performed by utilizing alternative routes, when it is paramount to maximize systemic exposure. Respiratory tract changes in preclinical species can include irritancy of the larynx and nasal cavity, particularly in rodents. Such changes are not necessarily predictive of a risk to humans because of the exquisite sensitivity of the rodent larynx and the lack of exposure to the nasal cavity after oro-inhalation of drugs in the clinical setting. The design of poorly soluble molecules to limit systemic exposure places greater emphasis on the elimination of drugs from the lungs by macrophages. Consequently, an increase in macrophage numbers is often noted, and in the absence of any other changes, this is generally considered to be a nonadverse, physiological response to an inhaled particulate. Other changes in the lung, which can include an inflammatory response and/or epithelial hyperplasia, resulting from irritancy or particulate overload, are a safety concern and are not monitorable in humans. For such changes, safety margins can be calculated in terms of the drug deposited per unit weight of lung. These factors should be taken into account when designing preclinical studies or programs for inhaled drugs. © 2013 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1517/17425240903110710
Title:Delivery of antibiotics to the respiratory tract: An update
Authors:D. TrainiP.M. Young
Absract:The use of inhaled medications for the treatment of pulmonary diseases has become an increasingly popular drug delivery route over the past few decades. This delivery route allows for a drug to be delivered directly to the site of the disease, with a lower dose than more conventional oral or intravenous delivery methods, with reduced systemic absorption and consequently reduced risk of adverse effects. For asthma this delivery route has become the 'golden standard' of therapy. It is not unexpected therefore, that there has been great interest in the prospect of using inhaled antibiotics for the treatment of both chronic and recurrent respiratory infections. Since the early 1980s, several investigations have demonstrated that antibiotics could be delivered safely by means of inhalation, using nebulisers as their delivery systems. Lately, antibiotics delivery via inhalation have seen a 'revival' in interest and most of these studies have focused on delivering antibiotics to the lungs by means of a dry powder format. This review focuses on recent advances in antibiotic inhalation therapy. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.03.026
Title:Development of cyclosporine A-loaded dry-emulsion formulation using highly purified glycerol monooleate for safe inhalation therapy
Authors:H. SatoK. OgawaY. KojoY. KawabataT. MizumotoS. YamadaS. Onoue
Absract:The main objective of this study was to improve the safety and oxidative stability of glycerol monooleate (GMO)-based dry-emulsion (DE) formulation containing cyclosporine A (CsA) for inhalation therapy. GMO or highly purified GMO (hpGMO) was used as surfactant for the DE formulations (GMO/DE or hpGMO/DE), the toxicological and physicochemical properties of which were characterized with a focus on oxidative stability, in vitro/in vivo toxicity, and dissolution property. Incubation of GMO at oxidation accelerating conditions for 10 days at 60 C resulted in the formation of lipid peroxides as evidenced by increased malondialdehyde (111 μmol/mg); however, hpGMO samples exhibited increase of only 20.7 μmol/mg in malondialdehyde level. No significant acute cytotoxicity was observed in rat alveolar L2 cells exposed to hpGMO (0.28 mM), and intratracheal administration of hpGMO powder in rats did not cause an increase of the plasma LDH level. The hpGMO/DE exhibited marked improvement in dissolution behavior of CsA, and stable fine micelles with a mean diameter of 320 nm were formed when suspended in water. A respirable powder formulation of hpGMO/DE (hpGMO/DE-RP) was newly prepared, and its in vitro inhalation property and in vivo efficacy were also evaluated. The hpGMO/DE-RP exhibited high dispersibility in laser diffraction analysis and significantly improved potency to attenuate recruitment of inflammatory cells into airway and thickening of airway wall in an animal model. Thus, the strategic use of hpGMO would improve oxidative stability and local toxicity compared with a GMO-based DE formulation, and its application to RP formulation could be a promising approach for effective inhalation therapy.© 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1208/s12248-009-9121-4
Title:In vitro considerations to support bioequivalence of locally acting drugs in dry powder inhalers for lung diseases
Authors:S.L. LeeW.P. AdamsB.V. LiD.P. ConnerB.A. ChowdhuryL.X. Yu
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are used to deliver locally acting drugs (e.g., bronchodilators and corticosteroids) for treatment of lung diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Demonstrating bioequivalence (BE) for DPI products is challenging, primarily due to an incomplete understanding of the relevance of drug concentrations in blood or plasma to equivalence in drug delivery to the local site(s) of action. Thus, BE of these drug/device combination products is established based on an aggregate weight of evidence, which utilizes in vitro studies to demonstrate equivalence of in vitro performance, pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic studies to demonstrate equivalence of systemic exposure, and pharmacodynamic and clinical endpoint studies to demonstrate equivalence in local action. This review discusses key aspects of in vitro studies in supporting the establishment of BE for generic locally acting DPI products. These aspects include comparability in device resistance and equivalence in in vitro testing for single inhalation (actuation) content and aerodynamic particle size distribution. © 2009 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

pui:613571134
Title:Inhalable chitosan coated solid lipid nanoparticles for interventional delivery to lung cancer
Authors:C.-L. ZhaoY.-C. ZhangZ. Yu
Absract:The present study reports the preparation and characterization of chitosan (CS) coated solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) having methotrexate (MTX) in its core, to evaluate their targeting efficiency in lungs when administered by inhalation in comparison with intravenous (i.v.) administration. Human lung carcinoma cell lines A549 was used to evaluate their cytotoxicity. CS-SLN-MTX and SLN-MTX were prepared by hot high pressure homogenization. The particle size and zeta potential both were estimated and were found to be appropriate for pulmonary delivery. The CS-SLN-MTX exhibited high encapsulation efficiency of 72 ± 4.9%. In vitro apoptotic assay revealed that CS-SLNs-MTX exhibited higher apoptotic property than SLNs-MTX. In vivo study revealed significantly higher (p < 0.05) concentration of MTX in lungs after inhalation of CS-SLNs-MTX than SLN-MTX.

doi:10.3109/10717544.2014.883113
Title:Effects of formulation and operating variables on Zanamivir dry powder inhalation characteristics and aerosolization performance
Authors:Y. YangZ. YangY. RenX. Mei
Absract:The objective of this study was to investigate the influence of formulation and operating variables on the physical characteristics and aerosolization performance of zanamivir spary-dried powders for inhalation. Spray-dried samples of zanamivir, zanamivir/mannitol and zanamivir/mannitol/leucine were prepared from their corresponding aqueous solutions under the same conditions to study the influence of the composition, and zanamivir/mannitol/leucine (1/1/3 by weight) formulation was used for investigation of the effect of the preparation process. Dry powders were characterized afterwards for different physical properties, including morphology, particle size, flowability, density and moisture absorption. The in vitro deposition was also evaluated after the aerosolization of powders at 100 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end via the Aerolizer® into a Next Generation Impactor (NGI). The highest FPF of 41.40 ± 1.1% was obtained with a zanamivir/mannitol/leucine ratio of 1/1/3, which had an average D@sub_beging@sub_end of 3.11 ± 0.13 μm and an angle of repose of 36° ± 1. It was found that the influence of the preparation process on zanamivir spary-dried powders characteristics and aerosolization properties was relatively small, but the influence of the composition was relatively large. Optimization of DPI can be achieved by selecting the most appropriate formulation and preparation process. © 2014 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jcis.2011.05.073
Title:Particle synergy and aerosol performance in non-aqueous liquid of two combinations metered dose inhalation formulations: An AFM and Raman investigation
Authors:P.G.A. RoguedaR. PriceT. SmithP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:The drug-drug interaction of two pMDI (pressure metered dose inhaler) combination products budesonide-formoterol fumarate dihydrate and salmeterol xinafoate-fluticasone propionate were investigated using in situ atomic force microscopy (AFM), equipped with a liquid cell filled with model a propellant, and Raman spectroscopy. Electron microscopy images of the budesonide-formoterol formulation suggested discrete particulates while the salmeterol-fluticasone formulation appeared agglomerated. Based on the analysis of the AFM curves, it is proposed that interactions in the budesonide-formoterol system (cohesion and adhesion) are dominated by van der Waals forces while interactions between salmeterol and fluticasone are of a chemical nature. Such observations are further substantiated by analysis of the Raman maps produced from pMDI actuations deposited on Andersen cascade impactor plates. The relevance of such synergy between particulates of different chemical nature is discussed. In particular, it is anticipated that strong interactions between particles could lead to heteroflocculation, increase aerosol particle size and consequently reduction of the respirable fine particle fraction. © 2011 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.01.017
Title:Sustained delivery by leucine-modified chitosan spray-dried respirable powders
Authors:T.P. LearoydJ.L. BurrowsE. FrenchP.C. Seville
Absract:The controlled co-delivery of multiple agents to the lung offers potential benefits to patients. This study investigated the preparation and characterisation of highly respirable spray-dried powders displaying the sustained release of two chemically distinct therapeutic agents. Spray-dried powders were produced from 30% (v/v) aqueous ethanol formulations that contained hydrophilic (terbutaline sulphate) and hydrophobic (beclometasone dipropionate) model drugs, chitosan (as a drug release modifier) and leucine (aerosolisation enhancer). The influence of chitosan molecular weight on spray-drying thermal efficiency, aerosol performance and drug release profile was investigated. Resultant powders were physically characterised: with in vitro aerosolisation performance and drug release profile investigated by the Multi-Stage Liquid Impinger and modified USP II dissolution apparatus, respectively. It was found that increased chitosan molecular weight gave increased spray-drying thermal efficiency. The powders generated were of a suitable size for inhalation-with emitted doses over 90% and fine particle fractions up to 72% of the loaded dose. Sustained drug release profiles were observed in dissolution tests for both agents: increased chitosan molecular weight associated with increased duration of drug release. The controlled co-delivery of hydrophilic and hydrophobic entities underlines the capability of spray drying to produce respirable particles with sustained release for delivery to the lung. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2165/00044011-200626040-00001
Title:Closer to an 'ideal inhaler' with the Easyhaler®: An innovative dry powder inhaler
Authors:H. Chrystyn
Absract:The characteristics of an ideal inhaler are based around the design and formulation of the device, patient use and the clinical effect, together with concordance and patient preference. To ensure consistent drug delivery to the lungs, with regular adherence to the prescribed dosage regimen, it is essential that all these characteristics simultaneously interact to provide smooth and sustained therapeutic control affected only by the clinical status of the patient. The literature highlights that dose emission from an Easyhaler® is fairly consistent irrespective of the inhalation technique used by patients of all age groups. Clinical studies have shown equivalence of this device to those frequently prescribed and that it is preferred by many patients. Although further research is required into the development of inhalation devices, the literature describing the Easyhaler® dry powder inhaler indicates how an inhaler can closely meet the criteria for an ideal inhaler. © 2006 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0011-393X(00)88502-1
Title:Comparative dose-ranging study of triamcinolone acetonide inhalation aerosol using propellants hydrofluoroalkane 134a or P-12 in children with chronic asthma
Authors:D.S. PearlmanR.E. KaneD. Banerji
Absract:The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide hydrofluoroalkane 134a (HPA) (chlorofluorocarbon [CFC] free) with those of triamcinolone acetonide P-12 (CFC containing) in children with chronic asthma. This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study comprised 473 children (6 to 13 years of age) with asthma. Patients received 12 weeks of treatment with 150, 300, or 600 μg of triamcinolone acetonide HFA daily given as 1, 2, or 4 puffs (75 μg/puff) or the same doses of triamcinolone acetonide P-12 after a 3- to 28-day baseline period. Mean percent change in forced expiratory volume in 1 second was 12.17% to 22.02% with HFA and 13.53% to 22.62% with P-12. Albuterol use decreased by 2, 2.7, and 3.6 puffs/d with the HPA 150-, 300-, and 600-μg groups, respectively, and by 2.2, 2.4, and 3 puffs/d for the respective P-12 groups. Significant improvement (P < 0.05) in symptoms was noted with both formulations. Overall, both formulations were similarly effective in improving pulmonary function and relieving asthma symptoms, and in general, both formulations were more effective at the higher doses of triamcinolone acetonide. Both formulations were well tolerated. Based on these results, we concluded that triamcinolone acetonide HFA inhalation aerosol is safe and effective in children with asthma and produces effects on pulmonary function and asthma symptoms similar to those produced by triamcinolone acetonide P- 12.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13040504
Title:Assessment and development of the antifungal agent caspofungin for aerosolized pulmonary delivery
Authors:I.G. YuD.M. Ryckman
Absract:Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis (IPA) and Pneumocystis jiroveci Pneumonia (PCP) are serious fungal pulmonary diseases for immunocompromised patients. The brand name drug CANCIDAS@sup_begin®@sup_end (Caspofungin acetate for injection) is FDA approved to treat IPA, but is only 40% effective. Efficacious drug levels at the lung infection site are not achieved by systemic administration. Increasing the dose leads to toxicity. The objective, here, is to reformulate caspofungin for aerosolization to high drug concentration by lung targeted delivery and avoid systemic distribution. Described in this paper is a new, room temperature-stable formulation that meets these goals. The in vitro antifungal activity, solid state and reconstituted stability, and aerosol properties of the new formulation are presented. In addition, pharmacokinetic parameters and tissue distribution data are determined from nose-only inhalation studies in rats. Plasma and tissue samples were analyzed by High Performance Liquid Chromatography-tandem Mass Spectrometry (HPLC-MS-MS). Inhaled drug concentrations for caspofungin Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API), and the new formulation, were compared at the same dose. In the lungs, the parameters Cmax and Area Under Curve (AUC) showed a 70%, and 60%, respective increase in drug deposition for the new formulation without significant systemic distribution. Moreover, the calculated pharmacodynamic indices suggest an improvement in efficacy. These findings warrant further animal toxicology studies and human clinical trials, with inhaled caspofungin, for treating IPA.

doi:10.4155/tde.13.71
Title:Liposomal formulations for inhalation
Authors:D. CipollaI. GondaH.-K. Chan
Absract:No marketed inhaled products currently use sustained release formulations such as liposomes to enhance drug disposition in the lung, but that may soon change. This review focuses on the interaction between liposomal formulations and the inhalation technology used to deliver them as aerosols. There have been a number of dated reviews evaluating nebulization of liposomes. While the information they shared is still accurate, this paper incorporates data from more recent publications to review the factors that affect aerosol performance. Recent reviews have comprehensively covered the development of dry powder liposomes for aerosolization and only the key aspects of those technologies will be summarized. There are now at least two inhaled liposomal products in late-stage clinical development: ARIKACE@sup_begin®@sup_end (Insmed, NJ, USA), a liposomal amikacin, and Pulmaquin™ (Aradigm Corp., CA, USA), a liposomal ciprofloxacin, both of which treat a variety of patient populations with lung infections. This review also highlights the safety of inhaled liposomes and summarizes the clinical experience with liposomal formulations for pulmonary application. © 2013 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.03.010
Title:Effect of process variables on morphology and aerodynamic properties of voriconazole formulations produced by thin film freezing
Authors:N.A. BeinbornH.L. LirolaR.O. Williams III
Absract:The particle engineering process, thin film freezing (TFF), was used to produce particulate voriconazole (VRC) formulations with enhanced properties. The effect of various processing parameters on the solid state properties and aerodynamic performance of the TFF-processed powders was investigated in order to evaluate the suitability of these formulations for dry powder inhalation and to optimize the aerodynamic properties. Thin film freezing of VRC solution without stabilizing excipients resulted in microstructured, crystalline low density aggregate particles with specific surface areas of approximately 10 m@sup_begin2@sup_end/g. Thin film freezing of VRC-PVP solutions produced nanostructured, amorphous low density aggregate particles with specific surface areas ranging from 15 to 180 m@sup_begin2@sup_end/g, depending on the solvent system composition, polymer grade, and drug to polymer ratio utilized. VRC formulations manufactured with 1,4-dioxane, with and without PVP K12, resulted in the lowest specific surface areas but displayed the best aerodynamic properties. Using a Handihaler® dry powder inhaler (DPI), microstructured crystalline TFF-VRC and nanostructured amorphous TFF-VRC-PVP K12 (1:2) displayed total emitted fractions of 80.6% and 96.5%, fine particle fractions of 43.1% and 42.4%, and mass median aerodynamic diameters of 3.5 and 4.5 μm, respectively. © 2012 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2013.810622
Title:Devices and formulations for pulmonary vaccination
Authors:W.F. TonnisA.J. LexmondH.W. FrijlinkA.H. De BoerW.L.J. Hinrichs
Absract:Introduction: Pulmonary vaccination could be a promising alternative to vaccination by injection. Administration of a vaccine to the lungs does not require the use of needles, which reduces the number of trained healthcare workers needed, the risk of needle-stick injuries and needle waste. Besides a systemic immune response, pulmonary vaccination may also induce a mucosal immune response. Such a local response may increase the effectiveness of vaccination against airborne pathogens. Although this route of administration has been studied for decades, no pulmonary vaccine is commercially available yet, due to various challenges mostly intrinsic to pulmonary drug delivery and vaccine formulation. Areas covered: This review discusses the inhalation devices and formulation strategies that may be suitable for the pulmonary administration of vaccines. In addition, critical parameters are addressed, such as the target population, to help assessing whether pulmonary administration of a specific vaccine may be feasible and beneficial or not. Expert opinion: A combined approach of inhalation device and vaccine formulation development is essential. This should result in a system that can effectively be used by the target population and can be produced at low costs. Only then, this challenging administration route can be successfully applied to large-scale vaccination programs. © 2013 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/S1773-2247(07)50040-7
Title:Evaluation of the content homogeneity and dispersion properties of fluticasone DPI compositions
Authors:T. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:In dry powder formulations for inhalation, the micronized active substance is usually diluted with a mixture of coarse and fine carrier particles in order to increase its flowability and dispersion properties. Considering a selected DPI fluticasone propionate (Flp)-coarse (CL) and fine (FL) lactoses ([Pharmatose DCL 21/Microfine 80/20] 1:499 w/w) composition in terms of drug deposition, the aim of the present study was to establish the optimal blending conditions in three types of mixing equipment, and to determine the effects of FL on the mixing homogeneity and dispersibility of Ftp. The Flp-lactose ternary mixtures were prepared by first premixing the two lactoses (CL/FL) in five different ratios: 100/0; 99/1; 90/10; 80/20; 0/100 (w/w). Then Flp was added and the blending was carried out at three rotational speeds (low, medium and high) in a three-dimensional motion mixer (Turbula 2C), a planetary mixer (Collette MP-20) and a high-shear (Mi-Pro) mixer. The incorporation of a large proportion of FL (20%) considerably improved the aerosol performance (FPD = 87 μg) but greatly reduced the content uniformity of Flp when the blending was performed in the Turbula mixer (relative standard deviation, RSD > 20% after 20 min irrespective of the selected speed). The achievement of a homogeneous mixture (RSD < 3%) required the use of powerful shear mixers (Colette MP-20 or Mi-Pro) operating at moderated rotational speeds to avoid the phenomenon of powder segregation and dust generation.

pui:351567311
Title:The effect of different levels of fines on DPI performance in vitro
Authors:M.M. Al-TabakhaA.I. Arida
Absract:The purpose of the current study was to optimise the level of fine particle lactose (FPL) present in carrier-based dry powder aerosols and to examine the effect of the model drug, fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-Dextran (mol. wt. 4,400 daltons), to carrier ratio on the in vitro performance when aerosolised from a Spinhaler™. FITC-Dextran with sieved α-lactose monohydrate (75-106 μm) or modified sieved lactose, which contained a range (1-20 % w/w) of added FPL, were mixed in the ratio of 1:25. The formulations were tested for aerosolisation using Andersen cascade impactor (ACI). The different ratios of FITC-Dextran to the optimised carrier (1:25-4:25) were similarly examined. Although flowability was shown to get worse as indicated by compressibility results, the increased addition of FPL showed to improve deaggregation of the emitted FITC-Dextran. The fine particle fraction based on the emitted dose (FPF@sub_beginEmitted@sub_end) was increased from 32.1 % to 43.7 % when the added FPL increased from 0 to 20 % w/w. The optimum level of added FPL was shown to be 5% w/w which showed the highest stepped-increase in the FPF@sub_beginEmitted@sub_end. The higher ratio (4:22) of FITC - Dextran to the optimised carrier reduced device retention from 63.1 % to 49.7 % and the FPFs based on loaded and emitted dose were improved. The model drug to carrier ratio was more influential than the FPL as it affected all the important inhalation parameters.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2014.952626
Title:The role of disposable inhalers in pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:A.H. De BoerP. Hagedoorn
Absract:Areas covered: Current trends in pulmonary drug delivery are presented in this review as well as the possible contribution of disposable inhalers to the improvement of pulmonary administration therein. Arguments in favour of disposable inhalers and the starting points for development of devices and their formulations are discussed. Also, a brief review of the state of the art regarding current disposable inhaler development is given.

doi:10.1097/FJC.0000000000000804
Title:Pulmonary Delivery of Antiarrhythmic Drugs for Rapid Conversion of New-Onset Atrial Fibrillation
Authors:R.L. VerrierL. Belardinelli
Absract:Pharmacologic management of atrial fibrillation (AF) is a pressing problem. This arrhythmia afflicts >5 million individuals in the United States and prevalence is estimated to rise to 12 million by 2050. Although the pill-in-the-pocket regimen for self-administered AF cardioversion introduced over a decade ago has proven useful, significant drawbacks exist. Among these are the relatively long latency of effects in the range of hours along with potential for hypotension and other adverse effects. This experience prompted development of a new strategy for increasing plasma concentrations of antiarrhythmic drugs rapidly and for a limited time, namely, pulmonary delivery. In preclinical studies in Yorkshire pigs, intratracheal administration of flecainide was shown to cause a rapid, reproducible increase in plasma drug levels. Moreover, pulmonary delivery of flecainide converted AF to normal sinus rhythm by prolonging atrial depolarization, which slows intra-atrial conduction and seems to be directly correlated with efficacy in converting AF. The rapid rise in plasma flecainide levels optimizes its anti-AF effects while minimizing adverse influences on ventricular depolarization and contractility. A more concentrated and soluble formulation of flecainide using a novel cyclodextrin complex excipient reduced net drug delivery for AF conversion when compared to the acetate formulation. Inhalation of the beta-adrenergic blocking agent metoprolol slows ventricular rate and can also terminate AF. In human subjects, oral inhalation of flecainide acetate with a hand-held, breath-actuated nebulizer results in signature prolongation of the QRS complex without serious adverse events. Thus, pulmonary delivery is a promising advance in pharmacologic approach to management of AF.

doi:10.1080/21678707.2018.1409110
Title:Is there a role for inhaled anti-inflammatory drugs in cystic fibrosis treatment?
Authors:Z. SheikhH.X. OngM. PozzoliP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Introduction: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a congenital life-limiting, orphan disease affecting 1/2500–1/3000 people worldwide with the greatest prevalence in Europe, North America and Australia. The primary reason underpinning the cause of morbidity and mortality of CF patients is associated with recurrent pulmonary inflammation and infection that leads to chronic, progressive lung deterioration and ultimately death of CF patients. Areas covered: This review aims to explore the potential role for inhaled anti-inflammatory drugs as a more successful treatment option for CF, in comparison with current oral delivery. Specifically, the focus is on ibuprofen, the only nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug approved for chronic use in CF. The need for inhalation therapy has also been highlighted with an insight on the reasons and challenges associated with developing an inhalation therapy of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Expert opinion: There is a fundamental need to direct research towards development of anti-inflammatory drugs to control inflammation rather than just targeting infection. Development of an inhalable preparation of ibuprofen alone or in combination with an antibiotic holds the potential to be the most effective treatment option among the existing array of therapies available for CF.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Clarithromycin nanocrystals in composite dry powder particles for high dose inhalation
Authors:A. NeustockR. Scherließ
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is an established route of administration for local or also systemic therapy. Typically, dry powder inhaler are loaded with an interactive powder consisting of a carrier and a small amount of high potent drugs. By preparing ''Trojan'' microparticles structured in a hollow core and shell out of more than 70 percent drug nanocrystals and a small amount of matrix material, it is possible to use active ingredients with higher therapeutic doses, such as antibiotics. This is especially convenient for pneumonia as with this local administration is possible which avoids the first pass effect of the liver. In this study, Clarithromycin nanocrystals for Trojan particles were prepared by media milling in a stabiliser solution. The influence of different amounts of HPMC as stabiliser was investigated. It was shown, that the lower the stabiliser concentration is the smaller the grinded particles get. However, without HPMC the nanocrystals agglomerate. Through spray drying the nanocrystal suspension, microparticles were prepared and the morphology as well as their geometric diameter were analysed. A minimum HPMC concentration is required for the formation of Trojan particles. By adding further HPMC with a high molecular weight after bead milling the total HPMC concentration can be reduced and is it possible to manufacture Trojan particles with a calculated API load of up to 96 %. The aerodynamic particle size distribution was evaluated for two different batches of microparticles utilising the TwinMax, a novel inhalation device for high dose therapy. First results show that a lower HPMC concentration in the formulation leads to less agglomeration and hence a higher fine particle fraction.

doi:10.1159/000511664
Title:Novel device and formulation for cannabis inhaler
Authors:E. ToledoT. Di-CoriG. Temtsin Krayz
Absract:Delivery of cannabis to the lungs is typically performed by smoking or vaping. Since the dose depends on the inhalation pattern, accurate dosing is limited. In addition, the heating vaping or burning of the cannabis changes its active ingredients further complicating the ability to control the actual cannabinoids and terpenes inhaled by the patient. We developed a unique, hand held, patented, gas nebulizer that can convert viscous fluids (up to 80cP) into aerosol with micron size droplets (fig 1). We adapted a capsule with a proprietary oil free cannabis formulation that contains up to 1.1 ml, which is more than needed for a single day use. Dosing will be dynamic and personalized using a smartphone app. This technology has the capability to administer accurate and reproducible dosage of cannabinoids to the plasma while ensuring accurate composition of cannabinoids and terpenes since no heating is involved in the creation of aerosol. The CBD concentration in our oil-free CBD formulation was 10 mg/ml (synthetic CBD, Cerilliant C-0145). Formulation stability was verified to be at least 1 month. Each puff was produced from 50 μ l of the formulation. Droplet size distribution was measured using laser diffraction (Spraytec) and the median mass aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) was less then 5 μ m (fig 2), as required by FDA for inhalation. Next Generation Impactor (Copley), which simulates droplet deposition in the respiratory system indicated CBD deposition of 83%. Initial pre-clinical studies in anesthetized pigs indicated delivery of CBD into the plasma (fig 3) Our data indicate the feasibility of accurate and reproducible systemic administration of medical cannabis using a hand held nebulizer. Further testing is needed before first-in-human trials can be performed.

doi:10.1208/s12249-019-1482-0
Title:Effect of Roughness on the Dispersion of Dry Powders for Inhalation: a Dynamic Visualization Perspective
Authors:X. KouP.W.S. HengL.W. ChanS.T. WereleyM.T. Carvajal
Absract:Dry powder inhalers have attracted more interest over the years in every aspect related to them. Interestingly, when focusing on the effects of particle morphology of the active or carrier (excipient), it is generally regarded particle size and shape to influence drug availability of aerosolized particles. However, to date, few studies have examined the effect of texture, i.e., roughness, on this relationship. The main objective of the present work is to gain a closer understanding of the influence of carrier morphology on the aerosolization performance of dry powder inhaler formulations. Image analysis and microscopy were used to visualize the aerosolization process. It is considered that the scale of morphological features on the surface of the carrier particles is responsible for the dispersion of the powder formulation, separation of the drug/carrier, and entrainment from a dry powder inhaler. Thus, for this study, the carrier particles of different surface roughness were mixed with micronized salbutamol sulphate. Aerosolization in vitro testing was used to evaluate the performance. The results indicate a connection between the qualitative surface roughness of coarse carriers and aerosolization performance during powder dispersibility. This investigation demonstrated that indeed, powder dispersion, a dynamic process, is influenced by the scale of the carrier morphology.

doi:10.1038/aps.2017.34
Title:Pulmonary delivery of nanoparticle chemotherapy for the treatment of lung cancers: Challenges and opportunities
Authors:S. MangalW. GaoT. LiQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Lung cancer is the second most prevalent and the deadliest among all cancer types. Chemotherapy is recommended for lung cancers to control tumor growth and to prolong patient survival. Systemic chemotherapy typically has very limited efficacy as well as severe systemic adverse effects, which are often attributed to the distribution of anticancer drugs to non-targeted sites. In contrast, inhalation routes permit the delivery of drugs directly to the lungs providing high local concentrations that may enhance the anti-tumor effect while alleviating systemic adverse effects. Preliminary studies in animals and humans have suggested that most inhaled chemotherapies are tolerable with manageable pulmonary adverse effects, including cough and bronchospasm. Promoting the deposition of anticancer drugs in tumorous cells and minimizing access to healthy lung cells can further augment the efficacy and reduce the risk of local toxicities caused by inhaled chemotherapy. Sustained release and tumor localization characteristics make nanoparticle formulations a promising candidate for the inhaled delivery of chemotherapeutic agents against lung cancers. However, the physiology of respiratory tracts and lung clearance mechanisms present key barriers for the effective deposition and retention of inhaled nanoparticle formulations in the lungs. Recent research has focused on the development of novel formulations to maximize lung deposition and to minimize pulmonary clearance of inhaled nanoparticles. This article systematically reviews the challenges and opportunities for the pulmonary delivery of nanoparticle formulations for the treatment of lung cancers.

doi:10.2174/2210303111202030155
Title:Characterization of radiolabeled dry powder leucine, a constituent of inhalable capreomycin
Authors:L. VenterJ. WagenerP. Bernard FourieJ.R. Zeevaart
Absract:Reformulation of anti-tuberculosis drugs into dry powder particles for inhalation is a novel strategy that aims to increase therapeutically relevant drug concentration at the primary site of infection and to limit associated toxicity by avoiding or minimizing first-pass metabolism. Development of such formulations ultimately requires quantified evidence of the deposition, absorption and clearance of inhaled active ingredient. In this context, we investigated the potential of radiolabelling particles with @sup_begin153@sup_endSm for subsequent gamma imaging, and to demonstrate that the technique is not detrimental to particle integrity. The study showed that the known properties of spray dried leucine (a major constituent of an inhalable capreomycin formulation) for deep lung inhalation are not altered by incorporation of samarium-chloride (SmCl@sub_begin3@sub_end) at 10% (w/w), or by neutron activation of particles that include stable @sup_begin152@sup_endSmCl@sub_begin152@sub_end3. SEM imaging indicated that the particle morphology was homogeneous and spherical after neutron activation. No discoloration of the samples or a change in dry powder particle size at 5 minutes occurred, provided the optimized formulations were activated for only 1 minute. Activation for 1 minute still provides enough @sup_begin153@sup_endSm for imaging purposes. © 2012 Bentham Science Publishers.

doi:10.3109/00952990.2011.569623
Title:Tampering with prescription opioids: Nature and extent of the problem, health consequences, and solutions
Authors:N. KatzR.C. DartE. BaileyJ. TrudeauE. OsgoodF. Paillard
Absract:Background: Transdermal and solid oral prescription opioid (PO) formulations can be abused by ingesting (with or without tampering), snorting, or injection (both requiring tampering). Objective: To determine the patterns of tampering with POs for abuse. Methods: Information was collected from published studies and databases. Results: Tampering with POs for abuse is common practice. Ingestion is the most prevalent method of abuse, followed by snorting and injection. From 1992 to 2002, injecting POs has decreased in favor of ingesting and snorting. Methods of abuse vary widely by product. Abuse methods with the highest morbidity are injection and inhalation. Conclusions: The seriousness of health outcomes associated with tampering with POs warrants the development of PO formulations that prevent or deter tampering. © 2011 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.12.001
Title:A freeze-dried formulation of bacteriophage encapsulated in biodegradable microspheres
Authors:U. PuapermpoonsiriJ. SpencerC.F. van der Walle
Absract:With the emergence of widespread antibiotic resistance, there has been renewed interest in the use of bacteriophages. While their potency, safety and specificity have underpinned their clinical potential, to date, little work has been focussed on their formulation with respect to controlled release and/or passive targeting. Here, we show that bacteriophages selective for Staphylococcus aureus or Pseudomonas aeruginosa can be encapsulated into biodegradable polyester microspheres via a modified w/o/w double emulsion-solvent extraction protocol with only a partial loss of lytic activity. Loss of lytic activity could be attributed to the exposure of the bacteriophages to the water-dichloromethane interface, with the lyophilization process itself having little effect. The microspheres were engineered to have an appropriate size and density to facilitate inhalation via a dry-powder inhaler and fluorescently labeled bacteriophages were distributed entirely within the internal porous matrix. The release profile showed a burst release phase (55-63% release within 30 min), followed by a sustained release till around 6 h, as appropriate for pulmonary delivery. Despite the poor shelf-life of the formulation, the work is proof-of-concept for the formulation and controlled delivery of bacteriophages, as suitable for the treatment of bacterial lung infections. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.12.047
Title:A novel method for the production of crystalline micronised particles
Authors:S.A.F.S. MuhammadT. LangrishP. TangH. AdiH.-K. ChanS.G. KazarianF. Dehghani
Absract:The aim of this study was to develop a method for converting an amorphous drug to a crystalline form to enhance its stability and inhalation performance. Spray-dried amorphous salbutamol sulphate powder was conditioned with supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end) modified with menthol. The effect of menthol concentration, pressure, temperature and time on the characteristics of the resulting salbutamol sulphate powder was investigated. Pure scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end had no effect on the physical properties of amorphous salbutamol sulphate; however, scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end modified with menthol at 150 bar and 50 °C was efficient in converting amorphous drug to crystalline form after 12 h of conditioning. The average particle size of powders decreased slightly after the conditioning process because of reducing agglomeration between particles by increasing surface roughness. Emitted dose measured by the fine particle fraction (FPF@sub_beginemitted@sub_end) of amorphous salbutamol sulphate was enhanced from 32% to 43% after conditioning with scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end + menthol and its water uptake was significantly decreased. This study demonstrates the potential of scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end + menthol for converting amorphous forms of powders to crystalline, while preserving the particle size. © 2010.

doi:10.1002/1520-6017(200102)90:2<213::AID-JPS12>3.0.CO;2-7
Title:The formulation of powder inhalation systems containing a high mass of nedocromil sodium trihydrate
Authors:M.J. ClarkeM.J. TobynJ.N. Staniforth
Absract:Nedocromil sodium trihydrate is not amenable to conventional methods of dry powder inhaler formulation, including the preparation of coarse carrier systems and aggregation of the pure drug powder. It is considered that the in vitro aerosol performance of such systems is governed by the cohesive drug - drug interactions. Therefore, alternative powder formulation strategies (novel to nedocromil sodium) were developed. By decreasing the particle size of the lactose carrier, the deaggregation and subsequent fine particle drug deposition were significantly improved. Further improvements were made by selecting and then optimizing high-shear mixing procedures. It was concluded, based on these findings and supportive microscopic studies (low-temperature and environmental scanning electron microscopy together with energy-dispersive X-ray analysis), that the FPL are producing their functional effects by intercalating within the drug self-agglomerates and physically disrupting the cohesive drug - drug interactions. The use of a smaller-sized lactose fraction in conjunction with a blending procedure capable of optimally disrupting the drug self-agglomerates allowed maximal intercalation of the excipient material within the drug self-agglomerates. The adhesive drug - FPL interactions are considered to be weak compared with the cohesive drug - drug particle interactions, cohesive interactions that would normally govern the aerosol performance of powder systems containing a high mass of nedocromil sodium trihydrate. © 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

pui:368747340
Title:Validated method development for estimation of formoterol fumarate and mometasone furoate in metered dose inhalation form by high performance liquid chromatography
Authors:K. SrinivasaroV. GoruleC. Venkata ReddiahA. Venkata Krishna
Absract:A simple, precise, accurate, and stability-indicating method is developed and validated for analysis of formoterol fumarate and mometasone furoate in metered dose inhalation formulations. Separation was achieved on a reversed-phase C@sub_begin18@sub_end column (150 mm X 4.6 mm i.d., 5μm) using a mobile phase consisting of Sodium dihydrogen orthophosphate buffer/acetonitrile (50:50,v/v) at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min and UV detection at 220 nm. This method is validated according to United States Pharmacopeia requirements for new methods, which include accuracy, precision, selectivity, robustness, and linearity and range. This method shows enough selectivity, accuracy, precision, and linearity and range to satisfy Federal Drugs Administration/International Conference on Harmonization regulatory requirements. The current method demonstrates good linearity over the range 0.01-0.20 mg/mL of formoterol fumarate with r@sup_begin2@sup_end 0.999 and 0.40-6.00 mg/mL of mometasone furoate with r@sup_begin2@sup_end 0.999. The average recovery of the method is 99.9% of formoterol fumarate with a relative standard deviation of 1.94% and 101.5% of mometasone furoate with a relative standard deviation of 0.81%. The degree of reproducibility of the results obtained as a result of small deliberate variations in the method parameters and by changing analytical operators has proven that the method is robust and rugged.

doi:10.1248/cpb.54.1508
Title:Novel approach to DPI carrier lactose with mechanofusion process with additives and evaluation by IGC
Authors:M. KumonM. SuzukiA. KusaiE. YonemochiK. Terada
Absract:The effect of lactose carrier surface property on the inhalation profile of dry powder inhaler (DPI) was evaluated using a micronized drug (Compound A) by inverse gas chromatography (IGC). Mechanofusion with magnesium stearate (Mg-St) or sucrose stearate increased the fine particle fraction (FPF), considered to be due to decrease in the interaction between Compound A and the lactose carrier. The effect of Compound A concentration on FPF was smaller in mechanofusion-processed lactose compared to intact lactose, especially when processed with Mg-St. The relationship between the IGC parameters of the lactose and FPF was also investigated. FPF increased as both the dispersive component of the surface energy and acidity similarity between the lactose carriers and Compound A increased. Although further investigation is necessary, it could be suggested that acidity similarity decreases the interaction between Compound A and lactose, thus contributing to the increase in the FPF. In conclusion, (1) mechanofusion with Mg-St or sucrose stearate could be an effective method to improve FPF of a DPI drug formulation; (2) IGC would be a valuable method to investigate the interaction between a drug and the DPI carrier; and (3) a relationship between surface acidity and inhalation profile was suggested. © 2006 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1007/s11095-004-7673-7
Title:Aerosol profile extracted from spacers as a determinant of actual dose
Authors:S. VerbanckC. VervaetD. SchuermansW. Vincken
Absract:Purpose. We propose a novel method to evaluate the efficacy of a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) in combination with a spacer, by not only considering the total dose extractable from the spacer but also the dependence of dose on the volume available for aerosol inhalation. Methods. We studied volume-dependence of aerosol concentration during extraction from two commonly used plastic spacers (150 ml AerochamberPlus; 750 ml Volumatic) after a single puff of a 100 μg salbutamol pMDI (HFA-Ventolin), using laser photometric measurements. Results. After a delay of 1s in each spacer, the aerosol peak dose for AerochamberPlus was 2-fold that for Volumatic (p < 0.001), with the peak appearing well within the first 0.5 L even for the largest spacer. The opposite dose relationship is reached when considering total cumulative dose, which was 2-fold higher for Volumatic than for AerochamberPlus (p < 0.001); >95% of total cumulative dose was extracted well within 3 L for the largest spacer. The 2-fold cumulative dose relationship was confirmed by chemical assay on an absolute filter [AerochamberPlus: 21.4 ± 3.2 (SD) μg; Volumatic: 43.8 ± 9.1 (SD) μg]. Conclusions. Actual aerosol dose available to patients during inhalation via spacers can only be done on the basis of a quantification of aerosol peak dose and cumulative dose as a function of extracted volume. © 2004 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2016.02.023
Title:Influence of amine-modified poly(vinyl alcohol)s on vibrating-membrane nebulizer performance and lung toxicity
Authors:M. Beck-BroichsitterO. SamsonovaJ. NguyenT. SchmehlW. SeegerT. Kissel
Absract:A suitable aerosol droplet size and formulation output rate is essential for the therapy of lung diseases under application of nebulizers. The current study investigated the potential of amine-modified poly(vinyl alcohol)s as excipients for inhalation delivery. A change of conductivity (effective at < 0.1 mg/ml) and viscosity (effective at > 0.1 mg/ml) of samples that were supplemented with charge-modified polymers had a significant influence on the generated droplet size (shift from ~ 8 to ~ 4 μm) and formulation throughput rate (shift from ~ 0.2 to ~ 1.0 g/min), where polymers with a higher amine density (and molecular weight) showed an elevated activity. Biocompatibility assessment of polymers in A549 cells and an isolated lung model resulted in cell lysis and lung edema formation dependent on the type (degree of amine substitution) and dose of polymer applied. Suitable compositions and concentrations of amine-modified poly(vinyl alcohol)s were identified with respect to an optimized nebulizer performance and acceptable biocompatibility. Charge-modified polymers represent novel excipients with potential to improve inhalation therapy.

doi:10.1002/jps.21545
Title:Spray-dried carrier-free dry powder tobramycin formulations with improved dispersion properties
Authors:G. PilcerF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:Tobramycin was spray dried at different temperatures from different water to isopropanol feed ratios (0:100-20:80) in order to obtain dry powder formulations for inhalation. The spray-dried powders were characterized for their physicochemical properties including crystallinity, morphology, density, water content, and particle size distribution using X-ray powder diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, tapped density measurements and laser diffraction. Aerosol performance was studied by dispersing the powders into a Multi-Stage Liquid Impinger with an Aerolizer® device. The results indicate that formulations spray dried at temperatures below 200°C exhibited poor powder flow properties and were therefore unlikely to display optimal aerosolisation characteristics. Nevertheless, it is interesting to note that the presence of water in the suspensions used for spray-drying markedly enhanced the fine particle fraction, which was about 37% for the raw tobramycin and about 57% for a powder obtained from a suspension containing 2% (v/v) water. Overall, this latter formulation was shown to keep its initial particle size distribution and aerodynamic behaviour for 12 months of storage at 40°C and 75% RH. These new carrier-free formulations provide an attractive alternative for delivering high doses of antibiotics directly to the site of infection while minimising systemic distribution. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1002/jps.20053
Title:Impact of Formulation and Methods of Pulmonary Delivery on Absorption of Parathyroid Hormone (1-34) from Rat Lungs
Authors:V. CodronsF. VanderbistB. UcakarV. PréatR. Vanbever
Absract:The aim of this work was to optimize the absorption of parathyroid hormone 1-34 (PTH) from the lungs by determining factors favoring its transport from the air spaces into the bloodstream. We simultaneously conducted pharmacokinetic and regional lung deposition studies in vivo in the rat following intratracheal administration of PTH in solution or dry powder form. Dry powders of PTH or albumin were prepared by spray-drying using lactose and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC). Deposition in the trachea, peripheral, and central lobe sections was assessed after tissue grinding using albumin as a marker. The method of intratracheal instillation had a significant impact on PTH absorption from the lungs, and the deeper the deposition within the respiratory tract, the higher the absorption. Inhalation of the PTH powder resulted in high systemic bioavailability despite deposition of the formulation principally in upper airways. We demonstrated that the increased absorption resulted from DPPC that had permeation enhancer properties even though it was abundantly present locally in pulmonary surfactant. Optimization of PTH absorption from the lungs could be attained by targeting the peripheral lungs as well as codelivering DPPC. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

pui:610918328
Title:Development and Characterization of Ethionamide loaded microparticles as Dry Powder Inhalers for Multi-drug Resistant Tuberculosis
Authors:M.V. BhavyaD.V. GowdaA. SrivastavaAravind Ram A.S.R.A.M. Osmani
Absract:The aim of the study was to prepare dry powder formulation of Ethionamide loaded polymeric microparticles for pulmonary delivery in effective treatment of multi drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). The microparticles were prepared by spray drying method using chitosan and hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose (HPMC) as biocompatible polymers. The microparticles and microparticle blend with lactose (Inhalac 230) were investigated for its aerosolization properties like emitted dose, mass median aerodynamic diameter, fine particle fraction, geometric standard deviation. The spray drying method produced rough surfaced microparticles under the size range of 8.5μm. Mass median aerodynamic diameter obtained for all formulation ranged in 2.28 μm to 3.33 μm and fine particle fraction in between 54.58 ± 5.16 to 75.74 ± 3.48. The lowest tapped density value obtained was 0.096 g/cm2 belong to formulation coded EM1. In vitro deposition studies using cascade impactor showed emitted dose of > 97% for all batches. The polymeric microparticles produced by spray drying technique showed promising particle characteristics suitable for inhalation with Fine particle fraction (75.74 ± 3.48) of total emitted dose, after blending with lactose. The blending of the microparticles with Inhalac 230 allowed the fine particle fraction values to increase by increasing the dispersibility of powder on inspiration.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2009.03.016
Title:Agglomerate properties and dispersibility changes of salmeterol xinafoate from powders for inhalation after storage at high relative humidity
Authors:S. DasI. LarsonP. YoungP. Stewart
Absract:Purpose: This study investigated changes in agglomeration and the mechanism of dispersibility decrease of salmeterol xinafoate (SX) from SX-lactose mixtures for inhalation after storage at 75% RH for 3 months. Methods: The dispersibility, PSD and in situ PSD of aerosol plumes of SX alone and SX-coarse lactose (CL) mixtures containing 0, 5, 10 and 20% micronized lactose (ML) before and after storage were determined by a Next Generation Impactor (NGI), a Mastersizer 2000 and a Spraytec, respectively. Results: The PSD of ML increased after storage at 75% RH, but dispersibility of SX using the stored ML increased. After storage, the %SX of the mixture containing 20% ML (M20F) significantly increased (P < 0.05) in the throat and mouthpiece, preseparator and stage 1 of NGI, while it significantly decreased in the remaining stages (P < 0.05). In situ analysis of aerosol plumes of M20F supported this result with an increased presence of particles of 4-25 μm and a decreased respirable particle distribution of <4 μm after storage. Conclusions: The decreased dispersibility of M20F after storage was due to the formation of less dispersible agglomerates, probably occurring through enhanced capillary interaction and/or solid bridging of ML, entrapping and preventing the release of SX particles. Crown Copyright © 2009.

doi:10.1185/030079906X132712
Title:Pulmonary safety of inhaled insulins: A review of the current data
Authors:L. Fabbri
Absract:The availability of non-invasive insulin delivery options for patients with diabetes may encourage earlier insulin use, and thus improve glycemic control and help reduce the diabetes burden. Pulmonary insulin delivery is the most promising alternative with several inhaled insulin systems in development, and the inhaled human insulin Exubera* (insulin human [rDNA origin] Inhalation Powder) has been recently approved in the United States and in the European Union for the treatment of adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Pulmonary function is an important aspect of the safety profile for compounds delivered via the lungs. Pulmonary function with Exubera has been extensively investigated in several completed and ongoing Phase 3 studies conducted in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. A small, consistent but clinically non-significant decrease in pulmonary function, occurs early, does not progress during 2 years of continuous therapy, and is reversible after discontinuation. A mild, transient cough occurring after inhalation of Exubera is the most common respiratory adverse event observed. Impaired lung function in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease may modify the absorption of Exubera, whereas active smoking is associated with increased absorption increasing the risk of hypoglycemic. Limited information is available regarding the pulmonary safety of other inhaled insulins, but comprehensive pulmonary studies are anticipated in the future. In preparing this article, the authors searched for references to inhaled insulin in the Medline database and in congress abstracts from 1998 to 2006. © 2006 Librapharm Limited.

pui:610743045
Title:Development and characterization of ethionamide loaded microparticles as dry powder inhalers for multi-drug resistant tuberculosis
Authors:M.V. BhavyaD.V. GowdaA. SrivastavaA.S. Aravind RamR.A.M. Osmani
Absract:The aim of the study was to prepare dry powder formulation of Ethionamide loaded polymeric microparticles for pulmonary delivery in effective treatment of multi drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). The microparticles were prepared by spray drying method using chitosan and hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose (HPMC) as biocompatible polymers. The microparticles and microparticle blend with lactose (Inhalac 230) were investigated for its aerosolization properties like emitted dose, mass median aerodynamic diameter, fine particle fraction, geometric standard deviation. The spray drying method produced rough surfaced microparticles under the size range of 8.5μm. Mass median aerodynamic diameter obtained for all formulation ranged in 2.28 μm to 3.33 μm and fine particle fraction in between 54.58 ± 5.16 to 75.74 ± 3.48. The lowest tapped density value obtained was 0.096 g/cm@sup_begin2@sup_end belong to formulation coded EM1. In vitro deposition studies using cascade impactor showed emitted dose of > 97% for all batches. The polymeric microparticles produced by spray drying technique showed promising particle characteristics suitable for inhalation with Fine particle fraction (75.74 ± 3.48) of total emitted dose, after blending with lactose. The blending of the microparticles with Inhalac 230 allowed the fine particle fraction values to increase by increasing the dispersibility of powder on inspiration.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2009.08.007
Title:Surface energy changes and their relationship with the dispersibility of salmeterol xinafoate powders for inhalation after storage at high RH
Authors:S. DasI. LarsonP. YoungP. Stewart
Absract:This study investigated the relationship between surface energy of micronized lactose, coarse lactose and salmeterol xinafoate and dispersibility from a mixture after storage at 75% RH. Surface energies, dispersibility, morphology, and the presence of amorphous domains were determined by inverse gas chromatography, twin stage impinger, scanning electron microscope and dynamic vapour sorption, respectively. The fine particle fraction of mixture decreased significantly in 4 weeks (P < 0.05), reaching a static level in 3 months. Amorphous content was not detected in the micronized lactose, coarse lactose and salmeterol xinafoate. After conditioning stored samples at 75% RH for 2 h, dispersive surface energy of both micronized and coarse lactose significantly decreased (P < 0.05), while the polar surface energy of all significantly increased (P < 0.05) resulting in significant increase in total surface energy after storage. After conditioning stored samples at 0% RH for 2 h, no significant difference was observed in any surface energy parameter. This study concluded that the total surface energy increased during storage at high RH due to the adhered surface moisture. The mechanism of decreased dispersibility was related to increased capillary/solid bridging interactions and to possible increased interaction of contiguous particles due to increased polar surface energy. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.12.044
Title:Applicability of DPI formulations for novel neurokinin receptor antagonist
Authors:M. KumonY. YabeY. KasuyaM. SuzukiA. KusaiE. YonemochiK. Terada
Absract:A novel triple neurokinin receptor antagonist (TNRA) could have pharmaceutical efficacy for asthma and/or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. TNRA is potentially developed as inhalation medicine. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the applicability of dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation for TNRA. DPI formulation containing lactose was used for this feasibility study. Mechanofusion process for surface modification was applied on lactose particles to prepare four different DPI formulations. The mixture of TNRA and lactose was administered to rats intratracheally using an insufflator. The deposition pattern and blood concentration profile of TNRA were evaluated. Although there was no significant difference in deposition on deep lungs between the four formulations, DPI formulations containing mechanofusion-processed lactose showed longer T@sub_beginmax@sub_end and t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end and higher AUC@sub_begin0-∞@sub_end and MRT compared to that containing intact lactose. On the other hand, the contact angle measurement showed that the mechanofusion process decreased the polar part of the surface energy of the lactose. Therefore, the prolongation of the wetting of the formulated powder mixture seemed to delay the dissolution of TNRA deposited in respiratory tract. It was concluded that DPI formulation containing mechanofusion-processed lactose could be suitable for inhalation of TNRA. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:627448704
Title:In-vivo evaluation of rifampicin loaded nanospheres: Biodistribution and mycobacterium screening studies
Authors:V.V.R. BeeramS. KrupanidhiR. Venkata Nadh
Absract:Rifampicin PLGA nanospheres are formulated with a specific goal in order to decrease the dose, adverse effects and to enhance targeted drug delivery. Rifampicin nanospheres were prepared and evaluated by emulsion solvent evaporation method. In vivo bio distribution studies reveal that there was a long term accumulation of rifampicin nanospheres in the lungs over other organs. The increase in C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values confirmed that inhalable PLGA nanospheres are suitable for targeting and providing sustained release of anti-tubercular drugs to lungs. So inhalation is a selected administration route of Rifampicin PLGA nanospheres. The in vivo screening of M. tuberculosis showed good activity as well as its activity against multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis and against M. tuberculosis isolates in a potentially latent state, makes Rifampicin PLGA nanospheres as an attractive drug dosage form for the therapy of tuberculosis. It can be concluded that there is a significant potential for effective oral delivery as well as nasal delivery of the Nanospheres for the treatment of tuberculosis.

doi:10.15557/PiMR.2016.0048
Title:Impact of selected construction elements of capsule-based dry powder inhalers on the manner of drug delivery to the lungs
Authors:M. OdziomekT.R. Sosnowski
Absract:The article discusses selected issues related to construction and performance of dry powder inhalers with the spinning capsule: Aerolizer® and cyclohaler. Investigations involved devices and capsules found among medicinal products available on the domestic market. Based on scanning electron microscope images, the following were determined: (i) shape and crosssection of needles used to puncture drug-containing capsules as well as (ii) size, geometry and cross-section of small holes in the capsules through which powder is introduced into the airstream while using the inhaler. It was found that differences in shape and spatial arrangement of needles affect both the total area of holes and the character of perforation. In Aerolizer® inhalers, the average area of holes is 1.3 mm@sup_begin2@sup_end at each side of the capsule, and oval through holes are obtained. In investigated cyclohaler-type inhalers, the average hole area ranges from 1.6 to 2.2 mm@sup_begin2@sup_end, and perforations are partly covered by torn fragments of the capsule. It has been determined that both the type of needles and inherent properties of the material from which capsules are made have an impact on observed effects. The authors have also assessed the potential influence of differences in the manner of perforation and applied capsule material on even powder release and aerosol generation in the device. Also, attention has been paid to other significant features of inhaler devices and powder formulations which decide about effective inhalation drug delivery to the respiratory system.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.02.018
Title:Investigation of the dynamic process during spray-drying to improve aerodynamic performance of inhalation particles
Authors:K. KawakamiC. SumitaniY. YoshihashiE. YonemochiK. Terada
Absract:Particle-tailoring technique requires significant improvement for wide use of pulmonary route for systemic drug delivery. In this study, the spray-dry method was used to prepare particles using maltose as a model component, with focus on interpretation of the dynamic process during the spray-drying. High-speed camera observation proved that the time required for particle formation was assumed to be on the millisecond scale. The surface tension at 10. ms was found to correlate well with both the size of the droplet produced from the spray nozzle and that of the solid particles. The surfactant molecules accumulated spontaneously on the particle surface to improve surface characteristics, including dispersity and hygroscopicity. Addition of polymer molecules made the particle surface rough, which significantly improved particle dispersity. Good correlation was found between the surface roughness and the aerodynamic performance of the particles, which was determined by a cascade impactor. The particle morphology was interpreted in terms of the mass transport of each component during the drying process. This excipient approach seems to be a promising method to prepare fine drug particles of high dispersity for achieving an efficient pulmonary drug delivery. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.4268/cjcmm20160513
Title:Preparation and in vitro evaluation of tetrandrine-loaded composite microspheres embedded with PLGA nanoparticles
Authors:C. ShiR. MengK. Li
Absract:In this paper, we prepared a type of composite microspheres embedded with poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles for efficient inhalation delivery of tetrandrine (Tet), which is a traditional Chinese medicine for anticancer, and studied its morphology, drug release profile, cytotoxicity and cellular uptake behavior. PLGA nanoparticles loading tetrandrine were prepared by emulsion solvent diffusion method, and composite microspheres were prepared by spray drying method with mannitol as matrix due to its osmotic effect. Scanning electronic microscopy, dynamic light scattering laser particle analyzer and confocal microscopy were applied to characterize the morphology and size of the microspheres. The drug loading rate, drug encapsulation efficiency and drug release properties were explored by RP-HPLC. The cytotoxicity in A549 cells between crude drug of Tet and Tet-loaded microspheres were compared by MTT assay. The cellular uptake behavior of microspheres in A549 cells was investigated using confocal laser scanning microscopy. The resultant microspheres were composed of 189 nm PLGA nanoparticles exhibited sizes ranging from 1 to 3 μm, with the highest deposition efficiency. The microspheres can easily be dissolved in a mimic lung environment and release redispersible PLGA nanoparticles. Compared with crude drug of Tet, Tet-loaded microspheres showed a certain sustained release property and higher cytotoxicity effect to A549 cells. The cellular uptake experiment demonstrated a higher excellent penetration ability of cells to nanoparticles and time-dependent uptake process. This study provides a basis for developing new inhalation therapies for lung cancer.

doi:10.1016/j.pharmthera.2014.05.003
Title:Across the pulmonary epithelial barrier: Integration of physicochemical properties and human cell models to study pulmonary drug formulations
Authors:M. HaghiH.X. OngD. TrainiP. Young
Absract:During the process of inhalable formulation development a deep knowledge of the physicochemical characteristics of the drug and formulation components and the biological properties of the airways is necessary.For example, the solubility and lipophilicity of a drug may affect therapeutic efficacy by changing the residence time of the microparticles at the airway surface. Furthermore, the properties of microparticles, such as shape, size and density, as well as the diseases of the respiratory tract, delivery device and inhalation manoeuvre will have an impact on where these microparticles are deposited.The airway epithelium is involved in the pathogenesis and treatment of respiratory diseases. Epithelial cells are directly exposed to the environment and respond to xenobiotics. In some cases, they are the site of action for drug molecules or the drug molecules might need to be transported across the epithelium to arrive at the site of action. The drug particles deposited on the respiratory epithelia have to interact with the mucus lining, dissolve and get transported through this layer. Despite advances in in vitro testing of respiratory epithelial permeability, there is little known about how and where drugs are absorbed at a cellular level and how long they reside in the lung. Therefore, pulmonary permeability assessment of drugs may provide insights that will allow formulations to be developed with optimised therapeutic outcomes.This review focuses on the integration of these physicochemical characteristics with the biological factors to provide a better understanding of the fate of microparticles after deposition on the epithelial cells. © 2014 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1002/jps.23102
Title:Respirable dry powder formulation of bleomycin for developing a pulmonary fibrosis animal model
Authors:Y. AokiY. KojoS. YamadaS. Onoue
Absract:The main purpose of the present study was to develop a respirable powder (RP) formulation of bleomycin (BLM) as a research tool for developing a pulmonary fibrosis animal model. The BLM-RP was prepared with a jet-milling system, the physicochemical properties of which were characterized focusing on morphology, stability, particle size distribution, and inhalation performance. Under an accelerated condition, the BLM-RP was superior to BLM solution in terms of its stability. Cascade impactor analyses demonstrated high inhalation performance with emitted dose and fine particle fraction of approximately 99% and 46%, respectively. Intratracheal administration of the BLM-RP (3mg BLM/kg) in rats led to significant increases in collagen production and recruitment of inflammatory cells in lung by approximately 1.5- and 29-fold, respectively. The collagen overexpression was consistent with the results from picrosirius red staining of lung tissues in the rats treated with BLM-RP. Inhaled tranilast (TL; 100μg/rat), an antifibrotic agent, could ameliorate inflammatory/fibrotic responses with reductions of recruited inflammatory cells and collagen content by 32% and 59%, respectively, validating the pulmonary fibrosis animal model. From these findings, the BLM-RP with improved stability could be a beneficial research tool for developing a pulmonary fibrosis model in drug discovery for antifibrotic drug candidates. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2009.06.001
Title:Tobramycin for inhalation in cystic fibrosis: Beyond respiratory improvements
Authors:A. ChuchalinE. AmelinaF. Bianco
Absract:European consensus guidelines recommend nebulised antibiotics for maintenance therapy in patients with cystic fibrosis and chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Two formulations of tobramycin for inhalation are available in Europe (Tobi@sup_begin®@sup_end; Novartis AG, Switzerland; Bramitob@sup_begin®@sup_end; Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A., Italy). Data from a series of randomised controlled studies in patients with mild-to-moderate cystic fibrosis and chronic P. aeruginosa infection show that both Tobi@sup_begin®@sup_end and Bramitob@sup_begin®@sup_end significantly improve lung function and reduce the density of P. aeruginosa in sputum. Bacterial resistance may develop but does not seem to be clinically important. Other benefits, such as improved patient nutritional status and reductions in the need for hospitalisation, antipseudomonal antibiotics and productivity losses have also been documented with Tobi@sup_begin®@sup_end and Bramitob@sup_begin®@sup_end. Both formulations of inhaled tobramycin are well tolerated with no evidence of renal or ototoxicity. Improved patient compliance may be achieved through reducing nebulisation time, either by using Bramitob@sup_begin®@sup_end, which is formulated in a smaller volume than Tobi@sup_begin®@sup_end, or with new generation nebulisers. In conclusion, inhaled tobramycin not only improves lung function in patients with cystic fibrosis, but also offers other benefits which have implications for healthcare costs and patient quality of life. © 2009.

doi:10.1023/B:PHAM.0000032991.74736.3e
Title:Aerosol dispersion of respirable particles in narrow size distributions using drug-alone and lactose-blend formulations
Authors:M.D. LoueyM. Van OortA.J. Hickey
Absract:Purpose. To examine the effect of formulation type on the aerosolization of respirable particles in narrow size distributions. Methods. Aerosol dispersion of two formulation types (drug alone and 2% w/w drug-lactose blends) containing micronized or spray-dried fluticasone propionate (FP) particles (d@sub_begin50%@sub_end = 1.3 to 9.6 μm, GSD = 1.8 to 2.2) were examined using cascade impaction at 60 L/min with low and high resistance inhaler devices: Rotahaler and Inhalator, respectively. Results. The aerosol dispersion of FP particles was significantly affected by the particle size, particle type, inhaler device, and formulation type. Interactions were observed between all factors. Generally, greater powder entrainment was obtained with smaller d@sub_begin50%@sub_end. Higher emitted doses were obtained from drug-alone formulations of spray-dried FP particles and lactose blends of micronized FP particles. Greater aerosol dispersion of spray-dried FP particles was obtained using lactose-blend formulations with d@sub_begin50%@sub_end around 4 μm. Greater aerosol dispersion of micronized FP particles was obtained using formulations of drug alone. Larger d@sub_begin50%@sub_end produced larger mass median aerodynamic diameters. Conclusions.Small changes in the particle size within the 1-10-μm range exerted a major influence on aerosol dispersion of jet-milled and spray-dried FP particles using drug-alone and lactose-blend formulations.

doi:10.1016/S1526-0542(04)90019-X
Title:Inhaled corticosteroids: Devices and deposition
Authors:B.K. Rubin
Absract:Purpose. To examine the effect of formulation type on the aerosolization of respirable particles in narrow size distributions. Methods. Aerosol dispersion of two formulation types (drug alone and 2% w/w drug-lactose blends) containing micronized or spray-dried fluticasone propionate (FP) particles (d@sub_begin50%@sub_end = 1.3 to 9.6 μm, GSD = 1.8 to 2.2) were examined using cascade impaction at 60 L/min with low and high resistance inhaler devices: Rotahaler and Inhalator, respectively. Results. The aerosol dispersion of FP particles was significantly affected by the particle size, particle type, inhaler device, and formulation type. Interactions were observed between all factors. Generally, greater powder entrainment was obtained with smaller d@sub_begin50%@sub_end. Higher emitted doses were obtained from drug-alone formulations of spray-dried FP particles and lactose blends of micronized FP particles. Greater aerosol dispersion of spray-dried FP particles was obtained using lactose-blend formulations with d@sub_begin50%@sub_end around 4 μm. Greater aerosol dispersion of micronized FP particles was obtained using formulations of drug alone. Larger d@sub_begin50%@sub_end produced larger mass median aerodynamic diameters. Conclusions.Small changes in the particle size within the 1-10-μm range exerted a major influence on aerosol dispersion of jet-milled and spray-dried FP particles using drug-alone and lactose-blend formulations.

pui:360156853
Title:Innovation in drug delivery by inhalation
Authors:A. Leone-BayR. BaughmanC. SmutneyJ. Kocinsky
Absract:Purpose. To examine the effect of formulation type on the aerosolization of respirable particles in narrow size distributions. Methods. Aerosol dispersion of two formulation types (drug alone and 2% w/w drug-lactose blends) containing micronized or spray-dried fluticasone propionate (FP) particles (d@sub_begin50%@sub_end = 1.3 to 9.6 μm, GSD = 1.8 to 2.2) were examined using cascade impaction at 60 L/min with low and high resistance inhaler devices: Rotahaler and Inhalator, respectively. Results. The aerosol dispersion of FP particles was significantly affected by the particle size, particle type, inhaler device, and formulation type. Interactions were observed between all factors. Generally, greater powder entrainment was obtained with smaller d@sub_begin50%@sub_end. Higher emitted doses were obtained from drug-alone formulations of spray-dried FP particles and lactose blends of micronized FP particles. Greater aerosol dispersion of spray-dried FP particles was obtained using lactose-blend formulations with d@sub_begin50%@sub_end around 4 μm. Greater aerosol dispersion of micronized FP particles was obtained using formulations of drug alone. Larger d@sub_begin50%@sub_end produced larger mass median aerodynamic diameters. Conclusions.Small changes in the particle size within the 1-10-μm range exerted a major influence on aerosol dispersion of jet-milled and spray-dried FP particles using drug-alone and lactose-blend formulations.

doi:10.1016/S0091-6749(98)70040-5
Title:Induced sputum and response to glucocorticoids
Authors:F.E. Hargreave
Absract:Jerry Dolovich has generated substantial new work that has had an international impact on the understanding and treatment of asthma and other airway diseases. For this, he is recognized as a Distinguished Clinician of the American Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Immunology. I have focused on some of his recent work with us using induced sputum to measure indices of airway inflammation noninvasively. The results illustrate that sputum eosinophilia (1) does lint necessarily correlate with the severity of symptoms or severity of abnormalities of airway function, (2) does not always occur in exacerbations of asthma, and (3) may be a predictor clinical benefit to steroid treatment which will be useful in practice. The observations imply that airway inflammation needs to be measured to understand the pathogenesis, pathophysiology, and treatment of asthma and other airway diseases.

doi:10.1046/j.1365-2044.2003.03562.x
Title:Drugs in anaesthesia
Authors:R. Sneyd
Absract:Jerry Dolovich has generated substantial new work that has had an international impact on the understanding and treatment of asthma and other airway diseases. For this, he is recognized as a Distinguished Clinician of the American Academy of Asthma, Allergy and Immunology. I have focused on some of his recent work with us using induced sputum to measure indices of airway inflammation noninvasively. The results illustrate that sputum eosinophilia (1) does lint necessarily correlate with the severity of symptoms or severity of abnormalities of airway function, (2) does not always occur in exacerbations of asthma, and (3) may be a predictor clinical benefit to steroid treatment which will be useful in practice. The observations imply that airway inflammation needs to be measured to understand the pathogenesis, pathophysiology, and treatment of asthma and other airway diseases.

doi:10.1016/S1461-5347(98)00099-6
Title:Dry powder formulations for pulmonary delivery
Authors:R.J. MalcolmsonJ.K. Embleton
Absract:These review examines the key issues surrounding the development and preparation of formulations for dry powder inhalers. The various inhaler devices that are currently available for achieving pulmonary drug deposition, from both liquid and dry powder formulations, are discussed and pulmonary physiology, as it relates to drug delivery via the lung, is briefly reviewed. In addition, key technologies currently available for producing drug particles within the respirable range are discussed. The bulk of the article is devoted to a look through the formulator's toolbox, examining the various options, considerations and problems associated with the development of dry powders for inhalation.

pui:25142138
Title:In vitro testing of dry powder inhalers
Authors:M. Van Oort
Absract:There is increasing focus on the development of dry powder inhalers (DPIs) for the delivery of therapeutic entities to the lungs. In vitro testing of metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) has evolved through the years and general tests and methods have been published through USP general chapter <601>, monographs, and guidelines issued by the FDA. In contrast, very few guidelines have been established for the testing of dry powder inhaler systems. In fact, these systems may prove to be more difficult to propose general tests for because they are based on different principles leading to a greater diversity in the number of types of devices and formulations in comparison to the MDIs. To form absolute standards at this stage will be difficult and this paper will present a comparison of the in vitro test methods of MDIs to some of the DPIs that are commercially available and suggests some guidelines to follow.

pui:24042990
Title:The deposition and clearance of liposome entrapped @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA in the human respiratory tract
Authors:S.A. BarkerK.M.G. TaylorM.D. Short
Absract:The size characteristics of aerosols produced by nebulising liposomes from five jet nebulisers have been investigated. The size and size distribution of the aerosols was determined by the design of the nebuliser and the gas flow rate employed to drive the nebuliser, rather than on the properties of the liposome preparations themselves. The clearance of inhaled dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine/cholesterol liposomes containing the aqueous phase marker @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA was studied by gamma-scintigraphy following inhalation by three healthy volunteers. Approx. 45% of originally deposited radioactivity remained in the lungs after 24 h. This represents the fraction of the radiolabel remaining in intact alveolar-deposited vesicles, since free @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA was removed from the airways with a half-life of 75 min.

pui:16089126
Title:Exercise-induced asthma after inhalation of aerosols with different osmolarities
Authors:A. SchmidtA. Bundgaard
Absract:Five adult asthmatics completed five standardized exercise tests while inhaling aerosols with different osmolarities. The nebulized solutions were 2% NaCl (osmolarity=616 mosm), 4% NaCl (osmolarity=1232 mosm), 6.1% dextrose (osmolarity=308 mosm = isoosmolar), 24.4% dextrose (osmolarity=1232 mosm) and distilled water (osmolarity=0). All the patients had EIA. During the study all conditions, except the osmolarity of the inhaled aerosols were kept constant. There was no statistical difference in the response to the exercise on the five days, the fall in PEF being 22.8% after exercise while inhaling 2% Nacl, 18.8% after inhaling 4% NaCl, 16.2 after inhaling 6.1% dextrose, 24.8% after inhaling 24.4% dextrose and 21.6% after exercise while inhaling nebulized distilled water, respectively. It is concluded that the osmolarity of the inhaled aerosol is of little or no importance in exercise-induced asthma.

doi:10.2745/dds.24.499
Title:Pulmonary delivery by novel sea-urchin like microparticles
Authors:T. OkudaT. FurudateH. Okamoto
Absract:Recent progress of micronization technique has greatly contributed to the development of several functional medicines based on the arrangement of their shape in μ∼nm order. For optimized inhalable dry powders, their aerodynamic particle diameters should be 1∼5 μm to achieve effective pulmonary delivery, while micronization process may generates stronger cohesive force between them, thereby leading to lower dispersion. To overcome these problems, hollow porous microparticles with low density have been developed. In this topic, we review the development of hollow porous microparticles for inhalable dry powder formulation, and introduce novel sea-urchin like microparticles that we have developed.

doi:10.1093/bja/87.3.380
Title:II. Fatty acid amides are putative endogenous ligands for anaesthetic recognition sites in mammalian CNS
Authors:D. LawsB. VerdonL. CoyneG. Lees
Absract:Recent progress of micronization technique has greatly contributed to the development of several functional medicines based on the arrangement of their shape in μ∼nm order. For optimized inhalable dry powders, their aerodynamic particle diameters should be 1∼5 μm to achieve effective pulmonary delivery, while micronization process may generates stronger cohesive force between them, thereby leading to lower dispersion. To overcome these problems, hollow porous microparticles with low density have been developed. In this topic, we review the development of hollow porous microparticles for inhalable dry powder formulation, and introduce novel sea-urchin like microparticles that we have developed.

doi:10.1007/BF00547042
Title:Comparison of inhaled salbutamol powder and aerosol in asthmatic patients with low peak expiratory flow level
Authors:H. TukiainenE.O. Terho
Absract:The short-term bronchodilator effects of dry salbutamol powder and a pressurized salbutamol aerosol were compared in 22 patients with severe asthma, on 3 consecutive mornings, in a double-dummy cross-over study. Only patients with peak expiratory flow (PEF) rate lower than 250 l/min, were recruited. PEF measurement was employed to assess changes in ventilatory function induced by inhalation of the drugs. No significant difference was found between the PEF changes induced by the dry salbutamol powder (400 μg) and the pressurized aerosol (200 μg). Both forms of the drug produced a significant rise in mean PEF values. The study shows that even in asthmatic patients with poor ventilation, a dry powder inhaler and pressurized aerosol are effective means of drug delivery to the lungs.

doi:10.1211/0022357991776967
Title:Pharmacokinetic differences between chlorofluorocarbon and chlorofluorocarbon-free metered dose inhalers of beclomethasone dipropionate in adult asthmatics
Authors:L.I. HarrisonI. SoriaA.C. ClineB.P. Ekholm
Absract:We have compared the serum pharmacokinetics of the metabolites of beclomethasone dipropionate after inhalation from chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) and hydrofluoroalkane HFA-134a (HFA) formulations in asthmatic patients. Twenty-three patients completed this open-label, randomized, single-dose, three-period crossover study. Each patient received in separate periods 200 μg or 400 μg HFA-beclomethasone dipropionate, or 400 μg CFC-beclomethasone dipropionate. Venous blood samples were collected over 24 h for the determination of beclomethasone esters and beclomethasone in the serum. Significant differences in pharmacokinetics following HFA- and CFC-beclomethasone dipropionate were observed. Following a 400 μg beclomethasone dipropionate dose, the HFA formulation gave mean maximum concentrations (C(max)) and area under the curve (AUC) values of beclomethasone esters of 1153 pg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 4328 pg h mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively, and beclomethasone C(max) and AUC values of 69 pg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 682 pg h mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively. These values were approximately 2-3-fold those seen with the CFC formulation (beclomethasone esters C(max) and AUC of 380 pg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 1764 pg h mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively; beclomethasone C(max) and AUC of 41 pg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 366 pg h mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively). Beclomethasone esters, the major component of beclomethasone dipropionate in the serum, peaked significantly earlier for the HFA formulation (0.8 h) than for the CFC formulation (2 h). Tests for dose proportionality of beclomethasone esters pharmacokinetics following HFA-beclomethasone dipropionate showed that the two hydrofluoroalkane strengths were proportional. The more rapid and greater efficiency of systemic drug delivery of the HFA formulation compared with the CFC formulation can be explained if most of each inhalation from CFC-beclomethasone dipropionate is swallowed and absorbed orally, whereas most of each inhalation from HFA-beclomethasone dipropionate is absorbed through the lungs. There is a need for comprehensive dose-response efficacy trials, with the use of the steep portion of the dose-response relationship, to evaluate the significance of these pharmacokinetic differences.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.05.014
Title:In vivo efficacy of a dry powder formulation of ciprofloxacin-copper complex in a chronic lung infection model of bioluminescent Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Authors:F. TewesT.F. Bahamondez-CanasD. Moraga-EspinozaH.D.C. SmythA.B. Watts
Absract:A significant limitation of locally delivered treatments for chronic pulmonary infections is often the short residence time within the airways. Ciprofloxacin (CIP), for example, undergoes rapid absorption from the airway lumen. Previously, we demonstrated that the complexation of CIP with copper (CIP-Cu) reduces its apparent epithelial permeability and pulmonary absorption rate without affecting antimicrobial activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa grown planktonically or as biofilms. This study aimed to evaluate the in vivo efficacy of CIP-Cu, prepared as a dry powder, in a chronic lung infection model. The powders were prepared by jet milling (CIP-HCl) and by spray drying (CIP-Cu). A bioluminescent strain of P. aeruginosa (PAO1::p16Slux) was used to prepare bacteria-loaded agar beads that were inoculated intratracheally to rats. The dynamics of the infection were monitored using luminometry. The bacteria/beads ratio was optimized to allow the highest luminescence signal and animal survival for 8 days. The efficacy of the treatment was evaluated by luminometry in addition to the end-point (Day 8) where colony counting was performed after lung harvesting. Luminescent P. aeruginosa entrapped in agar beads were useful to monitor the spatial development of the chronic lung infection in rats. The rats were treated with the dry powders in a nose-only inhalation exposure system (NOIES). CIP-Cu and CIP-HCl powders showed similar aerodynamic properties and comparable CIP lung deposition. However, treatment with CIP-Cu significantly (p < 0.01) reduced by 4-log the number of CFU of P. aeruginosa per lung in the chronic infection model, whereas CIP-HCl effect was not different from the untreated control group.

pui:352134289
Title:Inhaled insulin: Extending the horizons of inhalation therapy
Authors:V.P. GunturR. Dhand
Absract:Targeted glycemic control in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes is grossly inadequate, despite data demonstrating reduced microvascular and macrovascular diabetic complications with intensive treatment. A significant proportion of individuals with poorly-controlled type 2 diabetes are resistant to initiating treatment with insulin. Several decades-long search for alternative forms of insulin delivery has finally resulted in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's approval of the first inhaled insulin delivery system, Exubera. Inhaled insulin provides hope that minimizing barriers to initiating insulin therapy will improve the overall glycemic control in both type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients. Inhaled insulin is a powder formulation that has been approved for pre-meal administration in both type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients. The delivery system for Exubera employs compressed air for producing an aerosol, which is then inhaled by the patient. Insulin is transported across the alveolar-epithelial barrier into the blood and has onset of glucose-lowering activity within 10-20 min of inhalation. The duration of action of inhaled insulin is similar to that of subcutaneous regular insulin. Although there are some limitations to the use of inhaled insulin, the potential to improve adherence and thereby achieve target glycohemoglobin levels (< 6.5-7.0%) in poorly controlled diabetic patients outweigh its disadvantages. © 2007 Daedalus Enterprises.

doi:10.1517/17425247.4.3.297
Title:Design of fine particles for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:J.G. WeersT.E. TararaA.R. Clark
Absract:Particle design for inhalation is characterized by advances in particle processing methods and the utilization of new excipients. Processing methods such as spray drying allow control over critical particle design features, such as particle size and distribution, surface energy, surface rugosity, particle density, surface area, porosity and microviscosity. Control of these features has enabled new classes of therapeutics to be delivered by inhalation. These include therapeutics that have a narrow therapeutic index, require a high delivered dose, and/ or elicit their action systemically. Engineered particles are also being utilized for immune modulation, with exciting advances being made in the delivery of antibodies and inhaled vaccines. Continued advances are expected to result in 'smart' therapeutics capable of active targeting and intracellular trafficking. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1248/bpb.30.162
Title:Analysis of relationship between peak inspiratory flow rate and amount of drug delivered to lungs following inhalation of fluticasone propionate with a Diskhaler
Authors:H. YokoyamaY. YamamuraT. OzekiT. IgaY. Yamada
Absract:A Diskhaler is a dry powder type of inhaler that utilizes a breath controlled drug delivery system. The inspiratory flow rate of the patient would have a significant influence on the effects of drugs administered by a Diskhaler. Thus, we investigated the relationship between inspiratory flow rate and amount of drug delivered into the lungs when using a fluticasone propionate dry powder inhaler with a Diskhaler (FP-DH). To investigate the amount of drug inhaled, we used an inhalation simulator, which consisted of a flow recorder placed in a plastic air-tight box that covered the FP-DH equipped with a twin impinger and a vacuum pump. Drugs located in a plastic box, as well as the device, throat, and stage 1 and stage 2, were assayed by HPLC-UV, following in vitro inhalation at the various flow rates ranged from 18.7 to 77.3 l/min for 2 s. The relationship between peak inspiratory flow rate and amount of drug released from the device was analyzed. A positive linear correlation between the dose released from the device and amount of drug deposited in stage 2 was observed (r=0.899, p<0.001). The doses deposited in stage 2 were estimated to be 2.9 μg at a flow rate of 20 l/min, 6.6 μg at 30 l/min, 8.4 μg at 40 l/min, 10.1 mg at 60 l/min, and 11.3 mg at 90 l/min. It was suggested that the amount of drug in the lungs decreased along with a decrease in peak inspiratory flow rate when it was lower than 60 l/min. Our results were found to be very useful to estimate lung deposition by using peak inspiratory flow rate for administration planning, especially in patients with a flow rate of less than 60 l/min. © 2007 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2005.10.004
Title:The correlation of urinary levels of albuterol and its metabolites isomers following inhalation from a dry powder inhaler and in vitro particle size characterisation
Authors:T. SrichanaR. SuedeeN. TanmaneeD. MuanpanaraiC. Marriott
Absract:This study was designed to analyse the two enantiomers of abuterol in urine after the inhalation of a single dose of racemic albuterol from three dry powder inhalers by human volunteers. Urine samples were collected over 24 h and analysed by HPLC-with fluorescence detection. Albuterol and its metabolites in urine could only have resulted from pulmonary absorption because gastrointestinal absorption was prevented. Unchanged albuterol and its conjugated metabolites were detected in the urine of healthy volunteers at much higher levels than in the urine of the asthmatics. Also, the amount of S-(+)-isomer excreted in urine was higher than that of the R-(-)-isomer. These differences did not arise as a consequence of either the formulation or the inter-conversion of two isomers in the urine. There is a relationship between the improvement of mid-expiratory flow (FEF@sub_begin25-75@sub_end) and the amount of R-(-)-albuterol remaining to be excreted. The elimination rate constants of the parent drug in healthy volunteers of both R-(-)- and S-(+)-isomers were higher than those of the respective conjugated metabolites. The mean S/R ratio of the parent drug was about unity initially and increased to about 1.5 in the urine collected between 12 and 24 h. The values of S/R ratio of the conjugated metabolites in the healthy volunteers were in the range 1.2-2.4, with the value increasing over the time of collection before reaching a plateau. This also occurred with the asthmatics, but the ratios were higher, in the range of 2.0-4.5. In summary, the urinary level of albuterol following in vivo inhalation was found to correlate with in vitro deposition data from the dry powder inhaler. © 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jpba.2005.08.021
Title:Determination of albuterol sulfate and its related substances in albuterol sulfate inhalation solution, 0.5% by RP-HPLC
Authors:S.V. ErramC.B. FanskaM. Asif
Absract:An isocratic reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatographic (RP-HPLC) method has been developed and validated for the determination of albuterol sulfate and six of its related substances in albuterol sulfate inhalation solution, 0.5% (w/v). The separation was achieved using a YMC phenyl column (250 mm x 4.6 mm ID, 5 μm fitted with a direct connect YMC phenyl guard column (20 mm x 4 mm ID) maintained at ambient conditions, and a mobile phase of 25 mM monobasic potassium phosphate (pH 3.0) and methanol (95:5, v/v). The mobile phase flow rate was 1.5 mL/min and the detection wavelength was 225 nm. Albuterol is quantitated versus an external standard. The method was capable of resolving six of the seven known albuterol-related substances. Bis-ether albuterol, a drug substance process related impurity, is retained on the column due to its different hydrophilic character. The related substances are determined by area percent. However, a correction factor of 1.6 is applied for the determination of albuterol aldehyde, a potential impurity and a degradation product, since its molar absorptivity is about 1.6 times that of albuterol. The limits of detection and quantitation for albuterol and six of its related substances ranged between 0.01 and 0.21% of the assay concentration of 0.3 mg/mL as albuterol base. The method was found to be linear for albuterol over the range of 50-150% of the active label claim. The method was also found to be linear for the six related substances over the range 0.05-0.5%. No interferences from the blank, placebo (formulation matrix), related substances or force-degraded placebo samples were observed for the determination of the active or the individual related substances. The method was found to be accurate, precise, linear, specific, sensitive, rugged, robust, and stability-indicating. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/jgm.654
Title:The use of amino acids to enhance the aerosolisation of spray-dried powders for pulmonary gene therapy
Authors:H.-Y. LiP.C. SevilleI.J. WilliamsonJ.C. Birchall
Absract:Background: Pulmonary delivery of gene therapy offers the potential for the treatment of a range of lung conditions, including cystic fibrosis, asthma and lung cancer. Spray-drying may be used to prepare dry powders for inhalation; however, aerosolisation of such powders is limited, resulting in poor lung deposition and biological functionality. In this study, we examine the use of amino acids (arginine, aspartic acid, threonine, phenylalanine) to enhance the aerosolisation of spray-dried powders containing model non-viral gene vectors. Methods: Lipid/polycation/pDNA (LPD) vectors, in the presence or absence of amino acids, were dispersed in lactose solutions, and spray-dried to produce appropriately sized dry powders. Scanning electron microscopy and laser diffraction were used to determine particle morphology and diameter, respectively. Gel electrophoresis was used to examine the influence of amino acids on the structural integrity of the LPD complex. In vitro cell (A549) transfection was used to determine the biological functionality of the dry powders, and the in vitro aerosolisation performance was assessed using a multistage liquid impinger (MSLI). Results: Both gel electrophoresis and in vitro cell transfection indicated that certain amino acids (aspartic acid, threonine) can adversely affect the integrity and biological functionality of the LPD complex. All amino acids significantly increased the aerosolisation of the powder, with the arginine and phenylalanine powders showing optimal deposition in the lower stages of the MSLI. Conclusions: Amino acids can be used to enhance the aerosolisation of spray-dried powders for respiratory gene delivery, allowing the development of stable and viable formulations for pulmonary gene therapy. Copyright © 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

doi:10.1164/ajrccm-conference.2021.203.1_MeetingAbstracts.A3605
Title:Evaluation of single ascending-dose pharmacokinetics of liposomal treprostinil inhalation suspension (l606) in healthy volunteers
Authors:P. Kan
Absract:RATIONALE: L606 (Liposomal Treprostinil Inhalation Suspension) is intended to improve the inconvenience, as one of the greatest impediments to patient satisfaction to current inhaled prostacyclin therapy. L606 offers sustained release of treprostinil, and enables a convenient BID treatment. In addition, the steady plasma profile of L606 with low peak-to-trough fluctuation is more similar to the treprostinil formulations via oral and infusion routes. The exposure-response (efficacy) relationships of the two formulations (Remodulin® and Orenitram®) are approved by FDA for treatment of patients with PAH (WHO Group 1). METHODS: In this single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled single ascending-dose study (NCT04041648), the subjects after verification of eligibility were admitted to the clinical research unit (CRU). Prior to dose administration, subjects will be randomized to L606 or placebo in a 6:2 randomization ratio. Blood sampling for pharmacokinetic analysis for treprostinil occurred at pre-dose, 15 and 30 minutes and 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16 and 24 hours postdose. RESULTS&DISCUSSIONS: Healthy subjects received a single dose of L606 at the emitted dose levels of 51 μg, 63.8 μg, 75.6 μg, 102 μg, or placebo. Across all dose groups the pharmacokinetics of L606 showed an extend release in plasma up to 12 hours. Cmax attained at a median Tmax of approx. 1 hour post-dose and was 0.140 ng/mL at 51 μg. The mean half-life ranges from 3.4 to 5.7 hours. Plasma levels of treprostinil at all the tested doses were not detectable after 14 hours post-dose. No drug accumulation was obtained. The dose proportionality slope estimates in terms of Cmax and AUC indicated linear pharmacokinetic of L606. No unexpected treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) was found. All AEs resolved within 24 hours of dosing. CONCLUSIONS: Single dose PK of L606 reduces the dosing frequency to twice a day (every 10-12 hours), as well as mitigates the potential impact of off-medication during sleep time. Peak-trough fluctuation of L606 is relatively low in a comparison with Tyvaso® and currently developed dry powder formulations. The phase 3 study is initiated to evaluate the safety profile upon transition from Tyvaso® QID to L660 BID in PAH patients.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.118689
Title:Bedaquiline containing triple combination powder for inhalation to treat drug-resistant tuberculosis
Authors:B. RangnekarM.A.M. MominB.B. EedaraS. SinhaS.C. Das
Absract:Drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) is an emerging health problem, challenging the effective control of global TB. Current treatment of DR-TB includes administration of multiple anti-TB drugs via oral and parenteral routes for a duration of 20–28 months. High systemic exposure, side effects and lengthy treatment time are problems affecting current treatment. The success rate of current lengthy treatment regimens is generally <50%. Bedaquiline, a new anti-TB drug is synergistic with pyrazinamide and in combination with moxifloxacin accelerates sputum-culture conversion. Therefore, a triple combination of these drugs may have the potential to shorten the treatment time and improve treatment success. Additionally, inhalation of these drugs in combination may be advantageous due to the direct delivery to the lungs, possibly reducing systemic exposure. This study aimed to develop an inhalable triple combination powder of bedaquiline, moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide and study their physicochemical properties and safety. An inhalable (aerodynamic diameter: ≤2.4 µm) triple combination powder of bedaquiline, moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide with 20% w/w of L-leucine was prepared using a Buchi Mini Spray-Dryer. Combination powder consisted of spherical and porous particles. In vitro aerosolization (fine particle fraction, FPF) determined using a next generation impactor (NGI) showed improved FPF as a combination powder (>75.0%) when compared to single drug-only formulations (<45.0%). The powder was non-toxic to A549 and Calu-3 cells up to 100 µg/mL and stable at 30 ± 2% RH and ambient room temperature during one-month storage. This is the first study reporting the development of inhalable triple combination powder of bedaquiline, moxifloxacin and pyrazinamide with high aerosolization efficiency. The improved aerosolization may help to deliver a high dose of these drugs to treat drug-resistant tuberculosis.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2013.08.009
Title:Pure insulin highly respirable powders for inhalation
Authors:A.G. BalducciS. CagnaniF. SonvicoA. RossiP. BarataG. ColomboP. ColomboF. Buttini
Absract:The aim of the present research was to investigate the possibility to obtain by spray drying an insulin pulmonary powder respirable and stable at room temperature without the use of excipients. Several insulin spray-dried powders were prepared with or without the addition of excipients (mannitol, bovine serum albumin, aspartic acid) from water dispersions or from acidic aqueous solutions. Each formulation was characterized using laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy and in vitro aerosol performance with a Turbospin DPI device. Stability was assessed by the quantification of impurities with a molecular mass greater than that of insulin (HMWP) and related proteins (A21 + ORP). Insulin powders prepared without excipients from an acid solution showed a shrivelled, raisin-like shape of non-aggregated microparticles and a high respirability (FPF > 65%). The optimal result with respect to respirability and stability was reached when the pH of the insulin acetic acid solution to spray dry was adjusted at pH 3.6 with ammonium hydroxide. The median volume diameter of the obtained powder was 4.04 μm, insulin content 95%, emitted dose of 89.5%, MMAD 1.79 μm and fine particle fraction of 83.6%. This powder was stable at room temperature over a period of eighteen months with respect to the content of A21 + ORP. As far as the HMWP content was concerned, the powder complied with the specification limits for a period of five months. The insulin acetic powder opens up the possibility of a more effective pulmonary therapy less dependent on refrigerated storage. © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:355061793
Title:Budesonide inhalation suspension in adults with poorly controlled asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:P. Marcus
Absract:Inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) are recommended as first-line therapy for patients with persistent asthma and as adjunctive therapy in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who experience exacerbations. Administration of nebulized budesonide inhalation suspension (BIS) may be an appropriate alternative in certain patients with asthma or COPD that are uncontrolled with ICS delivery via dry powder inhaler (DPI) or pressurized metered-dose inhaler (MDI). In the U.S.A., BIS is approved for children aged 12 months to 8 years with asthma. In many other countries BIS also is approved for use in adults. In this case series, 12 patients with poorly controlled asthma aged 31 - 72 years and 13 patients with poorly controlled COPD aged 54 - 84 years were initiated on ICS therapy with nebulized BIS or transitioned from their usual ICS treatment to nebulized BIS and observed for ≥ 1 year. Changes in the number of exacerbations requiring oral corticosteroids and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) from the previous year (during which patients received their usual asthma or COPD therapy) to the following year (during which patients received nebulized BIS) were assessed. The number of exacerbations requiring oral corticosteroids decreased by an average of 3.6 exacerbations in patients with asthma and by an average of 2.5 exacerbations in patients with COPD during BIS treatment compared with the previous year. Clinical improvements in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end occurred in 58% of these patients with long-standing disease. Reported improvements in asthma control and pulmonary function suggest that BIS administered via a nebulizer may be a treatment option for adults with asthma or COPD that remains suboptimally controlled on ICS-based therapy administered via DPI or MDI.

doi:10.1093/ofid/ofz360.784
Title:In vitro and in vivo nonclinical efficacy of ar-501 (gallium citrate)
Authors:J. WooK. HearneA. KelsonL. YeeC. EspadasV.L. Truong
Absract:Background. Gallium nitrate citrate exhibits strong antibacterial activity and was recently shown to be safe and efficacious when intravenously administered to cystic fibrosis patients in a Phase 2 clinical study conducted by the University of Washington. We are developing an inhaled formulation of gallium citrate (AR-501), which is being tested in a Phase 1/2a clinical study. The in vitro antimicrobial activities, drug resistance profile, activities in combination with selected antibiotics, and in vivo animal efficacy if the inhaled vs. IV formulation is being presented. Methods. MIC tests were performed on strains using the CLSI susceptibility test standards. Resistance testing exposed bacteria to 20 cycles at ranges above and below the MIC level of the drug used.SPF mice (C57BL/6J, 7-9 weeks) were inoculated intranasally with P. aeruginosa under ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. Inhalation of AR-501 used an Aeroneb Solo nebulizer. Gallium levels were determined by elemental analysis using atomic absorption spectroscopy. CFU levels were measured by enumeration of bacterial colonies following serial dilution of tissue homogenates. Results. In vitro efficacy: MIC testing demonstrates the efficacy of AR-501 against gram (-), gram (+) and several species of mycobacteria of clinical isolates and the comparative antibacterial response with antibiotics. Resistance testing showed that AR-501 exhibited lower propensity to develop resistance than the antibiotics tested. In vivo efficacy: AR-501 Inhalation also increased the median survival time compared with IV dosing in the murine model. Bacterial clearance was increased when Tobramycin and AR-501 are co-administered. Comparative analysis of AR-501 after IH route demonstrate increased gallium levels in BAL and reduced levels in the kidney in contrast to IV route. Conclusion. In vitro studies demonstrate the susceptibility of gram (-), gram (+) and mycobacteria pathogens and the dose range of AR-501 compared with SOC antibiotics. In vivo studies confirm the therapeutic efficacy of AR-501 in bacterial pneumonia by IH delivery and demonstrate that bacterial clearance is enhanced when SOC antibiotics are used in combination with AR-501. (Figure Presented) .

doi:10.1089/jamp.2018.1464
Title:Ciprofloxacin Dry Powder for Inhalation: Inspiratory Flow in Patients with Non-cystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis
Authors:H. StassJ. NagelschmitzD. KappelerK. SommererA. PatzlaffB. Weimann
Absract:Background: As non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (NCFB) progresses, patients suffer irreversible lung damage and deterioration in lung function. This study explored whether inhalational parameters (peak inspiratory flow [PIF, primary endpoint], inspiratory volume and time [secondary endpoints]) represent barriers to complete dosing in patients with poor lung function who are using Ciprofloxacin dry powder for inhalation (DPI) (a drug-device combination of the T-326 inhaler device and a Ciprofloxacin dry powder formulation). Methods: This open-label, multicenter study generated inspiratory flow rate data from patients with NCFB using the breath-actuated T-326 dry powder inhaler. These rates were compared against reference values to identify whether patients with all degrees of lung function impairment could generate sufficient flow rates to facilitate adequate drug delivery. Patients attended screening and a second visit 1 - 14 days later. Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), FEV1/FVC, and inspiratory capacity were measured via spirometry at both visits. Forty-two patients were screened for inclusion; 33 met eligibility criteria and were stratified into one of three groups based on their FEV1% predicted value (group 1: 25% ≤ FEV1% predicted <45%; group 2: 45% ≤ FEV1% predicted <70%; group 3: FEV1% predicted ≥70%). Results: No significant between-group differences occurred in PIF (mean flow rates 68.21, 66.01, and 65.18 L/min in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively). Individual minimum PIFs of 46.0-49.0 L/min were observed across groups. These results all exceeded the reference value (minimum PIF 45 L/min for Ciprofloxacin DPI) indicating that regardless of the level of airflow obstruction, patients were capable of achieving sufficient PIFs to aerosolize and inhale Ciprofloxacin dry powder with the T-326 inhaler. Conclusions: Our data indicate that T-326 is suitable for use in the drug-device combination Ciprofloxacin DPI to provide targeted pulmonary delivery in patients with NCFB, including those with significantly impaired lung function.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0806
Title:Influence of particle size and material properties on mucociliary clearance from the airways
Authors:A. HenningM. SchneiderN. NafeeL. MuijsE. RyttingX. WangT. KisselD. GrafahrendD. KleeC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Mucociliary clearance (MC), designed by evolution to eliminate inhaled and possibly noxious material from the airways, considerably limits the benefit of inhalation therapy. Although the principles of MC seem to be understood, there are still many open questions on mucociliary particle clearance. In this study a trachea-based in vitro model was used to investigate the effect of particle size, zeta-potential, and mucoadhesive particle properties on mucociliary particle clearance. As different sized particles (50-6000 nm) were tested at equal mass concentrations, size related factors, namely particle number and particle surface area, varied by several orders of magnitude between the experiments. Surprisingly, particle clearance for 50 nm up to 6000 nm-sized polystyrene particles did not differ significantly (p < 0.05): 50 nm (2.9 ± 0.6 mm/min); 100 nm (3.8 ± 0.9 mm/min); 1000 nm (3.8 ± 0.8 mm/min); 6000 nm (3.2 ± 0.6 mm/min). In clear contrast, particles prepared from different PLGA-based copolymers (polylactic-co-glycolic acid) showed a significant effect on particle transport. PEG-PLGA particles (polyethylene glycol) showed the fastest and normal transport rates (5.9 ± 1.7 mm/min) compared to the ICRP's (International Commission of Radiological Protection) standard value for average tracheal transport rates (5.5 mm/min). Mucoadhesive chitosan-PLGA particles were transported at the slowest rate (0.7 ± 0.3 mm/min) of all particles tested. Overall, particle size and zeta-potential seem to be relatively uncritical, whereas material properties and the related particle surface chemistry significantly influence mucociliary particle clearance. Considering these findings in future drug formulation seems to be a promising strategy to improve inhalation therapy by prolonged particle/drug residence time within the airways. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2010.

pui:44823460
Title:Inhaled human insulin. No short-term advantages, too many unknowns in the long term
Authors:A. HenningM. SchneiderN. NafeeL. MuijsE. RyttingX. WangT. KisselD. GrafahrendD. KleeC.-M. Lehr
Absract:• The standard treatment for type 1 diabetes is intensive insulin therapy, with at least 3 daily subcutaneous injections. Insulin is sometimes useful in type 2 diabetes, in which case the first-line treatment is an injection of isophane insulin at bedtime, in addition to ongoing oral antidiabetic therapy. • Pfizer has been granted marketing authorization in the EU for a powdered insulin product for pulmonary inhalation, for the treatment of adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Two dose strengths are available (1 and 3 mg). • When inhaled, the insulin powder acts as rapidly as subcutaneous lispro insulin and lasts as long as a standard insulin injection. • Inhalation of 1 mg of insulin powder has similar glucose-lowering effects as 3 units of subcutaneous insulin, but inhalation of 3 mg is comparable to 8 units rather than 9 units of injected insulin. Three inhalations of 1 mg each have more glucose-lowering potency than a single inhalation of 3 mg. • None of the clinical trials published thus far have assessed the effects of inhaled insulin on clinical complications of diabetes. • In patients with type 1 diabetes, 7 randomised trials have compared inhaled insulin plus 1 or 2 subcutaneous injections of long-acting insulin with standard or intensive insulin therapy. They failed to show that intensive insulin therapy consisting of 3 insulin inhalations plus 1 or 2 injections of long-acting insulin reduced the HbA1c concentration or the frequency of hypoglycaemia more effectively than standard insulin therapy consisting of 2 daily subcutaneous insulin injections. • In type 2 diabetes, the addition of inhaled insulin has not been compared with the addition of injected insulin in patients whose glycaemia is not controlled by oral antidiabetic therapy. • In type 2 diabetes, 3 randomised trials have compared intensive insulin therapy based on inhaled insulin to subcutaneous insulin (2 to 4 daily injections), without oral antidiabetic drugs. The results suggest that glycaemic control is similar with both treatments. • The adverse effects of inhaled insulin have been assessed in fewer than 4000 patients participating in clinical trials, fewer than 600 of whom were treated for more than a year. During treatment lasting a few months, the most frequent short-term adverse effects (other than hypoglycaemia) seem to be mild respiratory adverse effects (cough, upper airway infections, etc.). • Treatment with inhaled insulin causes a gradual reduction in the peak expiratory flow rate (not convincingly shown to be reversible after the end of treatment) as well as a high incidence of anti-insulin antibodies. The possible long-term clinical consequences of these changes are unknown. The results of planned, long-term comparative trials should be available in 2014-2016. • The assessment of inhaled insulin in patients with respiratory disorders is inadequate. The effect of acute respiratory tract infections on the efficacy of inhaled insulin has not been adequately assessed. • Smoking (active or passive) and salbutamol, to a lesser extent, have important effects on the efficacy of inhaled insulin. • The insulin powder is very sensitive to high humidity, which can occur under normal conditions, leading to a risk of under-dosing. • The inhalation device is much larger than an injector pen. It does not permit precise insulin dose adjustment and delivers a maximum of 8 units per inhalation. • In practice, the many unknowns concerning the adverse effects of long-term treatment with inhaled insulin powder will probably not be resolved before 2016. In the meantime, subcutaneous injection remains the standard method of insulin delivery.

doi:10.4155/tde.14.111
Title:Challenges in the delivery of peptide drugs: An industry perspective
Authors:A.L. LewisJ. Richard
Absract:Due mainly to their poor stability and short plasma half-life, peptides are usually administered by injection, often several times daily. Injectable sustained-release formulations of peptides based on biodegradable polymer microparticles or implants early demonstrated the power of drug delivery technologies to enhance patient adherence and convenience, and increase safety and efficacy. Injectable sustained-release formulations are likely to remain a significant part of new peptide products. However, a new generation of technologies that enable solvent-free formulations and manufacturing processes, injection through narrow gauge needles and ready-to-use presentations will be increasingly used. In addition, the tremendous developments in noninvasive routes of delivery are likely to result in more and more peptides being delivered by the oral, transdermal, nasal or inhalation routes.

doi:10.1007/s11095-017-2334-9
Title:Physico-Chemical Properties, Aerosolization and Dissolution of Co-Spray Dried Azithromycin Particles with L-Leucine for Inhalation
Authors:S. MangalH. NieR. XuR. GuoA. CavallaroD. ZemlyanovQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Purpose: Inhalation therapy is popular to treat lower respiratory tract infections. Azithromycin is effective against some bacteria that cause respiratory tract infections; but it has poor water solubility that may limit its efficacy when administrated as inhalation therapy. In this study, dry powder inhaler formulations were developed by co-spray drying azithromycin with L-leucine with a purpose to improve dissolution. Methods: The produced powder formulations were characterized regarding particle size, morphology, surface composition and in-vitro aerosolization performance. Effects of L-leucine on the solubility and in-vitro dissolution of azithromycin were also evaluated. Results: The spray dried azithromycin alone formulation exhibited a satisfactory aerosol performance with a fine particle fraction (FPF) of 62.5 ± 4.1%. Addition of L-leucine in the formulation resulted in no significant change in particle morphology and FPF, which can be attributed to enrichment of azithromycin on the surfaces of composite particles. Importantly, compared with the spray-dried amorphous azithromycin alone powder, the co-spray dried powder formulations of azithromycin and L-leucine demonstrated a substantially enhanced in-vitro dissolution rate. Such enhanced dissolution of azithromycin could be attributed to the formation of composite system and the acidic microenvironment around azithromycin molecules created by the dissolution of acidic L-leucine in the co-spray dried powder. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic data showed intermolecular interactions between azithromycin and L-leucine in the co-spray dried formulations. Conclusions: We developed the dry powder formulations with satisfactory aerosol performance and enhanced dissolution for a poorly water soluble weak base, azithromycin, by co-spray drying with an amino acid, L-leucine.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2013.1067
Title:In vitro characterization of the optichamber diamond valved holding chamber
Authors:R.H.M. HatleyD. Von HollenD. SandellL. Slator
Absract:Background: Use of a valved holding chamber (VHC) in conjunction with a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) can reduce issues relating to poor actuation-inhalation coordination and potentially improve the lung deposition of aerosol, compared with use of a pMDI alone. However, the performance of a VHC is influenced by different device-related factors, including the size and shape of the VHC and the material it is manufactured from (conventional versus antistatic). This study aimed to provide an in vitro characterization of an antistatic VHC, the OptiChamber Diamond VHC, comparing the aerodynamic particle size distribution of aerosol delivered via this VHC with results from a second antistatic VHC and a conventional VHC. Methods: The pMDI drug formulations (albuterol, suspension; beclomethasone dipropionate, solution) were connected to a Next Generation Impactor, either directly (pMDI alone tests) or via a VHC (VHC tests). The pMDIs were actuated (×10 per product pair) and tested at extraction flow rates of 15 L/min and 30 L/min, without any time delay between actuation and inhalation. Dose delivery using the two pMDI drug formulations was compared, and is presented with reference to key aerodynamic particle size parameters. Results: Compared with tests on pMDIs alone, use of a VHC increased the dose of aerosol within the respirable range, particularly at a 15 L/min flow rate. Between-VHC comparisons indicated that the two antistatic VHCs were equivalent. Delivery of albuterol appeared to be influenced by the VHC used, but beclomethasone dipropionate seemed unaffected. Conclusions: The two antistatic VHCs were equivalent for both pMDI brands. Aerosol delivered from the antistatic VHCs at 15 L/min had a higher proportion of fine particles compared with the conventional VHC. © 2014, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2013.04.009
Title:Chemical synthesis and formulation design of a PEGylated vasoactive intestinal peptide derivative with improved metabolic stability
Authors:S. OnoueT. MatsuiM. KatoT. MizumotoB. LiuL. LiuS.-I. KarakiA. KuwaharaS. Yamada
Absract:The present study aimed to design a PEGylated VIP derivative, [Arg @sup_begin15, 20, 21@sup_end, Leu@sup_begin17@sup_end]-VIP-GRR (IK312532), with improved metabolic stability, and develop its respirable powder (RP) formulation for inhalation therapy. IK312532 was chemically conjugated with PEG (5 kDa, P5K), the physicochemical and biochemical properties of which were characterized by CD spectral analysis, binding assays, and metabolic stability. CD spectral analysis demonstrated that PEG conjugation had no impact on the conformational structure of IK312532. Although the receptor-binding activity of IK312532/P5K (IC@sub_begin50@sub_end: 82 nM) was estimated to be ca. 30-fold less than that of IK312532 (IC@sub_begin50@sub_end: 2.8 nM), the metabolic stability of IK312532/P5K was highly improved. The IK312532/P5K was jet-milled and blended with lactose carrier particles to provide RP formulation of IK312532/P5K (IK312532/P5K-RP). In vitro inhalation performance and in vivo pharmacological effects of the IK312532/P5K-RP in antigen-sensitized rats were also evaluated. In cascade impactor analyses, fine particle fraction of IK312532/P5K-RP was calculated to be ca. 37%. Insufflation of IK312532/P5K-RP (150 μg of IK312532/P5K) in antigen-sensitized rats resulted in marked attenuation of inflammatory events, as evidenced by significant decreases in inflammatory biomarkers and granulocyte recruitment in pulmonary tissue 24 h after the antigen challenge. From these findings, PEGylation of a VIP derivative, as well as its strategic application to the RP formulation, may be a viable approach to improve its therapeutic potential for the treatment of airway inflammatory diseases. © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1080/17425255.2021.1908262
Title:Drug metabolism in the lungs: opportunities for optimising inhaled medicines
Authors:Z. Enlo-ScottE. BäckströmI. MudwayB. Forbes
Absract:Introduction: The lungs possess many xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes which influence the pharmacokinetics and safety of inhaled medicines. Anticipating metabolism in the lungs provides an opportunity to optimize new inhaled medicines and overcome challenges in their development. Areas covered: This article summarizes current knowledge on xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes in the lungs. The impact of metabolism on inhaled medicines is considered with examples of how this impacts small molecules, biologics and macromolecular formulation excipients. Methods for measuring and predicting xenobiotic lung metabolism are critically reviewed and the potential for metabolism to influence inhalation toxicology is acknowledged. Expert opinion: Drugs can be optimized by molecular modification to (i) reduce systemic exposure using a ‘soft drug’ approach, (ii) improve bioavailability by resisting metabolism, or (iii) use a prodrug approach to overcome pharmacokinetic limitations. Drugs that are very labile in the lungs may require a protective formulation. Some drug carriers being investigated for PK-modification rely on lung enzymes to trigger drug release or biodegrade. Lung enzyme activity varies with age, race, smoking status, diet, drug exposure and preexisting lung disease. New experimental technologies to study lung metabolism include tissue engineered models, improved analytical capability and in silico models.

doi:10.1080/08982104.2020.1806874
Title:Design, optimization, and in-vivo hypoglycaemic effect of nanosized glibenclamide for inhalation delivery
Authors:R.S. Abdel-RashidF.I. Abd AllahA.A. HassanF.M. Hashim
Absract:The aim of this research was the development and optimization of nanoniosomes for delivery of glibenclamide (Gbn) as hypoglycaemic agent to the lung in an inhaler dosage form. Fifteen formulae of niosomal dispersions were prepared according to Box–Behnken design. The effect of drug amount, Cholesterol molar ratio, and Hydrophilic lipophilic balance (HLB) values of the surfactant on the mean vesicle size, Zeta potential (ZP), polydispersity index (PDI), entrapment efficiency, and in-vitro released of Gbn were investigated. A quality control check was performed on an inhaler filled with the optimum nanoniosomal formula. The in-vivo hypoglycaemic effect of nanoniosomal inhalation was also evaluated. The vesicle size observed of the optimized formula was 172 ± 4.6 nm, PDI was 0.304 ± 0.06 and ZP was −49.9 ± 1.5 mv with 69 ± 9.3% in-vitro drug release after 2 h. The Cholesterol molar ratio and the HLB value showed a statistically significant effect on dependent variables. In-vivo results proved that nanoniosomes were efficiently delivered from the inhalation canister showing a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 1.4 micron. The inhaled nanoniosomal dispersion loaded with Gbn showed a decrease in blood glucose level of hyperglycaemic rats by 51.42 ± 5.2%± after 180 min which was nearly two folds compared to oral Gbn. Gibenclamide nanoniosomes inhaler could be suggested as a novel effective dosage form for the treatment of Diabetes mellitus.

doi:10.1016/S1557-0843(08)80010-3
Title:Variability of Insulin Action: Does It Matter?
Authors:L. Heinemann
Absract:Background: Repeat SC injection of identical insulin doses does not induce an identical metabolic effect in patients with diabetes. This concept hampers practical insulin therapy tremendously. Objective: The aim of this article is to briefly and critically review the available literature on the variability of insulin action. Methods: There are only limited numbers of clinical-experimental and clinical studies focusing on the variability of insulin action; therefore, no formal literature search was performed. However, the available studies, along with their references, provided the basis for our findings. Results: Insulin absorption from the SC depot is mainly determined by local blood flow, and many factors affect blood flow. The metabolic effect of absorbed insulin depends on a patient's insulin sensitivity, which is highly variable both intraindividually and interindividually. SC injection of prandial insulin shows an intraindividual coefficient of variation (CV) of insulin action of 15% to 25% and an interindividual CV of 20% to 45% under experimental conditions. The intraindividual variability of insulin action for intermediate-acting/basal insulin is not much higher at 25% to 35% than that of prandial insulin. The variability of the currently available soluble long-acting insulin analogues is reduced compared with neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin in most but not all studies. Although other routes of insulin application (eg, inhalation) might provide an opportunity to reduce the variability of insulin action, the intraindividual variability of metabolic effect observed after inhalation of insulin (15%-30%) was comparable to that seen after SC administration of prandial insulin (15%-25%). Conclusions: The variability of insulin action is clinically highly relevant; however, an intensive scientific investigation of this topic is lacking. Nonetheless, this research might well enable the development of insulin formulations or insulin application techniques that would help reduce this disturbing aspect of insulin therapy. © 2008 Excerpta Medica Inc.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(99)00296-3
Title:Pulmonary delivery of a dopamine D-1 agonist, ABT-431, in dogs and humans
Authors:Y. ZhengK. C. MarshR. J. BertzT. El-ShourbagyA. L. Adjei
Absract:The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of intrapulmonary delivery of ABT-431, a selective D1 receptor agonist. Following intratracheal instillation of the drug solution, the lung bioavailability was found to be approximately 75% in dogs. An aerosol suspension formulation was then developed by dispersing the drug in tetrafluoroethane, HFC-134a, with the aid of poloxamer 124 and vitamin E. This ABT-431 MDI aerosol formulation showed about 40% of the particles emitted from the valve and actuator system to be under 5 μm in diameter. Also, the primary package (15 mL aluminum container, DF10/ACT-150 valve, and Micron-4-actuator with the orifice 0.4 mm) was satisfactory for accurate and reproducible dosimetry. Using tracheostomized beagle dogs, the C(max) following tracheal administration of 5 mg aerosolized ABT-431 was found to be 13.3±0.9 ng ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end and the AUC@sub_begin0-24@sub_end was estimated at 33.2±10.6 h ng ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The lung bioavailability of the aerosolized drug was 34% compared to intravenous injection in dogs. In humans, results from a single rising dose study demonstrated that rapid absorption of ABT-431 following oral inhalation administration resulted in a dose-dependent increase in the area under the plasma-time curve at dosage levels between 3.3 and 13.2 mg. There is a possibility of up to 25% absorption of the drug from human lung. Thus, pulmonary bioavailability of ABT-431 is significantly greater than that of oral administration. Also, these findings suggest that small and lipophilic compounds, especially with hepatic first pass effect, may be effectively delivered systemically using oral inhalation aerosols. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.05.004
Title:Quantitative comparison of three widely-used pulmonary administration methods in vivo with radiolabeled inhalable nanoparticles
Authors:L. WuC. Rodríguez-RodríguezD. CunM. YangK. SaatchiU.O. Häfeli
Absract:Pulmonary formulations have been attracting much attention because of their direct effects on respiratory diseases, but also their non-invasive administration for the treatment of systemic diseases. When developing such formulations, they are typically first investigated in mice. As there are various pulmonary administration methods, the researcher has to decide on the best quantitative method for their preclinical investigations among candidate methods, both for total delivery and distribution within the lung lobes. In this study, we investigated the deposition and distribution of siRNA loaded PLGA nanoparticles (NPs) in the different lung lobes via three widely used pulmonary administration methods: intratracheal instillation, intratracheal spraying and intranasal instillation. The NPs were radiolabeled with @sup_begin111@sup_endIn, administered and a single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT/CT) whole body scan performed. Quantitative image volume of interest (VOI) analysis of all inhalation related organs was performed, plus sub-organ examinations using dissection and gamma counting. Intratracheal instillation and intratracheal spraying deposited >95% and >85% of radiolabeled NPs in the lung, respectively. However, the lung lobe distribution of the NPs was inhomogeneous. Intranasal instillation deposited only ~28% of the dose in the lungs, with even larger inhomogeneity and individual variation between animals. Furthermore, there was a high deposition of the NPs in the stomach. Intratracheal instillation and intratracheal spraying deposit a large number of NPs in the lungs, and are thus useful to test therapeutic effects in preclinical animal studies. However, the inhomogeneous distribution of formulation between lung lobes needs to be considered in the experimental design. Intranasal instillation should not be used as a means of pulmonary administration.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S91631
Title:Preparation, optimization, and in vitro simulated inhalation delivery of carvedilol nanoparticles loaded on a coarse carrier intended for pulmonary administration
Authors:A.A. AbdelbaryA.M. Al-MahallawiM.E. AbdelrahimA.M.A. Ali
Absract:Carvedilol (CAR) is a potent antihypertensive drug but has poor oral bioavailability (24%). A nanosuspension suitable for pulmonary delivery to enhance bioavailability and bypass first-pass metabolism of CAR could be advantageous. Accordingly, the aim of this work was to prepare CAR nanosuspensions and to use artificial neural networks associated with genetic algorithm to model and optimize the formulations. The optimized nanosuspension was lyophilized to obtain dry powder suitable for inhalation. However, respirable particles must have a diameter of 1–5 μm in order to deposit in the lungs. Hence, mannitol was used during lyophilization for cryoprotection and to act as a coarse carrier for nanoparticles in order to deliver them into their desired destination. The bottom-up technique was adopted for nanosuspension formulation using Pluronic stabilizers (F127, F68, and P123) combined with sodium deoxycholate at 1:1 weight ratio, at three levels with two drug loads and two aqueous to organic phase volume ratios. The drug crystallinity was studied using differential scanning calorimetry and powder X-ray diffractometry. The in vitro emitted doses of CAR were evaluated using a dry powder inhaler sampling apparatus and the aerodynamic characteristics were evaluated using an Andersen MKII cascade impactor. The artificial neural networks results showed that Pluronic F127 was the optimum stabilizer based on the desired particle size, polydispersity index, and zeta potential. Results of differential scanning calorimetry combined with powder X-ray diffractometry showed that CAR crystallinity was observed in the lyophilized nanosuspension. The aerodynamic characteristics of the optimized lyophilized nanosuspension demonstrated significantly higher percentage of total emitted dose (89.70%) and smaller mass median aerodynamic diameter (2.80 μm) compared with coarse drug powder (73.60% and 4.20 μm, respectively). In summary, the above strategy confirmed the applicability of formulating CAR in the form of nanoparticles loaded on a coarse carrier suitable for inhalation delivery.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11100521
Title:Pharmaceutical benefits of fluticasone propionate association to delivery systems: In vitro and in vivo evaluation
Authors:M.G. DogbeA.Y. MafilazaC.V. EleutérioH. Cabral-MarquesS. SimõesM.M. Gaspar
Absract:The objective of the present work was to characterize the ability of liposomes and cyclodextrin (CyD) complexes to modulate the in vivo profile of fluticasone (FTZ). In vitro cell compatibility tests were performed, exposing A549 cells to FTZ in the free form and FTZ associated to liposomes and complexed with CyD. The in vivo fate of a selected FTZ liposomal formulation and of several FTZ CyD complexes was achieved following intranasal instillation or pulmonary administration in BALB/c mice, respectively. For pulmonary administration, an inhalation chamber was constructed to enable the simultaneously pulmonary administration to six mice. Thirty minutes and 3 h after administration, mice were sacrificed, their blood, lungs, livers, and spleens were removed, and FTZ level was determined by HPLC using an extraction procedure. The in vitro tests revealed no toxic effects of FTZ formulations, as cellular viability was always superior to 90% for FTZ concentrations ranging from 5 to 60 µM 72 h after incubation. The in vivo biodistribution results showed that FTZ incorporated in liposomes resulted in 20 and 30 times higher accumulation in the lungs in comparison with free FTZ, at 0.5 and 3 h after i.n. administration, respectively. FTZ associated to Hydroxypropyl-γ-cyclodextrin (HP-CyD) was the complex that permitted the higher accumulation of FTZ in the lungs in comparison with the respective free form. The results also suggest that the inhalation chamber apparatus can effectively facilitate the evaluation of in vivo inhalation. The establishment of an animal model of asthma allows us to further study the therapeutic efficacy of the developed FTZ formulations.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.7b00036
Title:Physical Characterization of Tobramycin Inhalation Powder: II. State Diagram of an Amorphous Engineered Particle Formulation
Authors:D.P. MillerT. TanJ. NakamuraR.J. MalcolmsonT.E. TararaJ.G. Weers
Absract:Tobramycin Inhalation Powder (TIP) is a spray-dried engineered particle formulation used in TOBI Podhaler, a drug-device combination for treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF). A TIP particle consists of two phases: amorphous, glassy tobramycin sulfate and a gel-phase phospholipid (DSPC). The objective of this work was to characterize both the amorphous and gel phases following exposure of TIP to a broad range of RH and temperature. Because, in principle, changes in either particle morphology or the solid-state form of the drug could affect drug delivery or biopharmaceutical properties, understanding physical stability was critical to development and registration of this product. Studies included morphological assessments of particles, thermal analysis to measure the gel-to-liquid crystalline phase transition (T@sub_beginm@sub_end) of the phospholipid and the glass transition temperature (T@sub_beging@sub_end) of tobramycin sulfate, enthalpy relaxation measurements to estimate structural relaxation times, and gravimetric vapor sorption to measure moisture sorption isotherms of TIP and its components. Collectively, these data enabled development of a state diagram for TIP - a map of the environmental conditions under which physical stability can be expected. This diagram shows that, at long-term storage conditions, TIP is at least 50 °C below the T@sub_beging@sub_end of the amorphous phase and at least 40 °C below the T@sub_beginm@sub_end of the gel phase. Enthalpy relaxation measurements demonstrate that the characteristic structural relaxation times under these storage conditions are many orders of magnitude greater than that at T@sub_beging@sub_end. These data, along with long-term physicochemical stability studies conducted during product development, demonstrate that TIP is physically stable, remaining as a mechanical solid over time scales and conditions relevant to a pharmaceutical product. This met a key design goal in the development of TIP: a room-temperature-stable formulation (3-year shelf life) that obviates the need for refrigeration for long-term storage. This has enabled development of TOBI Podhaler - an approved inhaled drug product that meaningfully reduces the treatment burden of CF patients worldwide.

doi:10.1007/s13346-013-0137-z
Title:Concurrent oral and inhalation drug delivery using a dual formulation system: The use of oral theophylline carrier with combined inhalable budesonide and terbutaline
Authors:R.O. SalamaP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:A novel approach to concurrently deliver oral and inhaled drugs as a single formulation is presented. A triple therapy containing theophylline (THEO; orally delivered) with budesonide (BUD) and terbutaline (TERB; as single and co-spray-dried inhaled powders) was prepared as an ordered mix, with THEO acting as a carrier. The aerosolisation performance of THEO formulations containing BUD and TERB alone, physical mix and co-spray-dried powder was evaluated using a next-generation impactor (NGI). Physicochemical properties were investigated using electron microscopy, laser diffraction, dynamic vapour sorption and thermal analysis. NGI analysis indicated that >99 % of the THEO powder was >4.46 μm, with >90 % dissolved within 5 min. Particle size analysis showed TEB and BUD samples were of a suitable size for inhalation. Thermal and moisture analysis suggested powders to be stable at room temperature up to 70 % RH. Aerosol studies indicated a different performance of BUD and TERB depending on the mixing procedure. The co-spray-dried formulation showed the highest performance, with a fine particle fraction (≤4.46 μm) of BUD and TERB of 34.39 ± 3.56 and 33.61 ± 5.67 %, respectively. Such observations suggest that this multicomponent drug delivery system could be developed to concomitantly deliver oral and inhaled drugs, an approach that, to date, does not exist. Ultimately, this technology potentially reduces the requirement for multiple therapies and increases patient compliance. © 2013 Controlled Release Society.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2012.04.019
Title:Dry powder insufflation of crystalline and amorphous voriconazole formulations produced by thin film freezing to mice
Authors:N.A. BeinbornJ. DuN.P. WiederholdH.D.C. SmythR.O. Williams III
Absract:Attention has begun to focus on the pulmonary delivery of antifungal agents for invasive fungal infections as inhalation of the fungal spores is often the initial step in the pathogenesis of many of these infections, including invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). IPA in immunocompromised patients has high mortality rates despite current systemic (oral or intravenous) therapies. In this study, particulate voriconazole (VRC) formulations were designed with suitable properties for inhalation using thin film freezing (TFF), a particle engineering process capable of producing low-density porous aggregate particles. Nanostructured amorphous morphology of VRC was less favorable in vitro and in vivo than microstructured crystalline morphology, despite being a poorly water-soluble compound. Using a Handihaler® dry powder inhaler (DPI), microstructured crystalline TFF-VRC and nanostructured amorphous TFF-VRC-PVP K25 (1:3) had fine particle fractions of 37.8% and 32.4% and mass median aerodynamic diameters of 4.2 and 5.2 μm, respectively. Single dose 24-h pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in ICR mice. AUC@sub_begin0-24h@sub_end in the lung tissue and plasma was 452.6 μg h/g wet lung weight and 38.4 μg h/mL, respectively, following a 10 mg/kg insufflated dose of TFF-VRC directly into the lungs of the mice, while AUC@sub_begin0-24h@sub_end in the lung tissue and plasma was 232.1 μg h/g wet lung weight and 18.6 μg h/mL, respectively, following a 10 mg/kg insufflated dose of TFF-VRC-PVP K25 (1:3). High concentrations of VRC in lung tissue coupled with clinically relevant plasma concentrations suggest that pulmonary delivery of microstructured crystalline VRC could potentially be a beneficial strategy for administration of VRC to patients with invasive pulmonary fungal infections. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/(SICI)1099-0496(199608)22:2<106::AID-PPUL5>3.0.CO;2-O
Title:Dose response to inhaled terbutaline powder and peak inspiratory flow through Turbuhaler® in children with mild to moderate asthma
Authors:E. StåhlL.B. RibeiroG. Sandahl
Absract:The purpose of this study was to investigate the relative effectiveness of 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, and 1.0 mg of terbutaline, administered via Turbuhaler®, in children with mild to moderate asthma, and to register peak inspiratory flow rates through Turbuhaler® (PIF(TBM)). Thirty-seven children in Portugal (one center) and 45 children in Sweden (one center) aged 3-10 years participated in two separate, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, and randomized studies of the same design. Because of differences in other therapies for asthma and climate, combination of the two studies into one metanalysis did not appear appropriate. The children inhaled 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, and 1.0 mg terbutaline sulfate and placebo t.i.d for consecutive 2-week periods without washout periods. Peak expiratory flow rates (PEF) were measured at home before and 15 minutes after each inhalation in the morning, afternoon, and evening. PIF(TBM) was measured twice at each of four clinic visits. At the Portuguese center the increases in mean morning PEF from before to after inhalation were 32 L/min after 0.25 mg, 35 L/min after 0.5 mg, and 40 L/min affer 1.0 mg. The corresponding figures in Sweden were 26 L/min, 31 L/min, and 29 L/min after 0.25 mg, 05 mg, and 1.0 mg, respectively. For children 3-6 years, mean values for PIF(TBM) were 60 L/min in Portugal (n = 15)(T) and 58 L/min in Sweden (n = 23). In the 7-10 year group the mean PIF(TBM) was 72 L/min (n = 22) in Portugal, and 68 L/min (n = 22) in Sweden. We conclude that inhalation of terbutaline sulfate via Turbuhaler® at a small dose of 0.25 mg resulted in good bronchodilation and was comparable to inhalations of 0.5 mg and 1.0 mg in children aged 3-10 years with mild to moderate asthma. PIF(TBM) were comparable to values previously recorded in healthy 6-year-old and older children and in adult asthmatic patients.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13111825
Title:Inhalable microparticles embedding calcium phosphate nanoparticles for heart targeting: The formulation experimental design
Authors:E. QuartaF. SonvicoR. BettiniC. De LucaA. DottiD. CatalucciM. IafiscoL. Degli EspostiG. ColomboG. TrevisiD.M. RekkasA. RossiT.W. WongF. ButtiniP. Colombo
Absract:Inhalation of Calcium Phosphate nanoparticles (CaPs) has recently unmasked the potential of this nanomedicine for a respiratory lung-to-heart drug delivery targeting the myocardial cells. In this work, we investigated the development of a novel highly respirable dry powder embedding crystalline CaPs. Mannitol was selected as water soluble matrix excipient for constructing respirable dry microparticles by spray drying technique. A Quality by Design approach was applied for understanding the effect of the feed composition and spraying feed rate on typical quality attributes of inhalation powders. The in vitro aerodynamic behaviour of powders was evaluated using a medium resistance device. The inner structure and morphology of generated microparticles were also studied. The 1:4 ratio of CaPs/mannitol led to the generation of hollow microparticles, with the best aerodynamic performance. After microparticle dissolution, the released nanoparticles kept their original size.

doi:10.1177/2045894020971509
Title:Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of LIQ861, a novel dry-powder formulation of treprostinil
Authors:R. RoscignoT. VaughnS. AndersonW. WarginT. HuntN.S. Hill
Absract:A dry-powder inhaled formulation of treprostinil (LIQ861) produced using PRINT® technology offers a substantial advantage over current nebulized therapy. Treprostinil is a synthetic prostacyclin analogue that is currently approved for inhalation administration to patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension via nebulized Tyvaso® inhalation solution. LTI-101 was a phase 1, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, single-center study that evaluated the ascending single-dose pharmacokinetics of LIQ861 in healthy subjects. Six sequential, escalating doses (25, 50, 75, 100, 125, and 150 mcg) were studied to investigate treprostinil exposure from LIQ861 inhalation. Subjects (n = 57) were randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive a single dose of either LIQ861 (n = 43) or placebo (n = 14); 56 subjects completed all protocol-defined assessments. Following single-dose administration, treprostinil exposure from LIQ861 increased proportionally across the dose range studied, and the pharmacokinetics profile of treprostinil administered as LIQ861 was similar to prior reports of inhaled treprostinil. All doses of LIQ861 were generally well-tolerated with no deaths, serious adverse events, or dose-limiting toxicities. The most frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events related to study drug administration were coughing and throat irritation, which are common to dry-powder formulations. Treatment-related treatment-emergent adverse events were reported more frequently at higher dose levels; however, all were assessed as mild in severity. We conclude that the pharmacokinetics profile of treprostinil using a dry-powder inhaled formulation increased in proportion to dose as anticipated and was similar to earlier reports of inhaled, nebulized treprostinil (Tyvaso®). Based on these results, a phase 3 study (INSPIRE; Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier NCT03399604) evaluating the long-term safety and tolerability of LIQ861 in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension was initiated.

doi:10.1007/978-3-319-43099-7_19
Title:Inhalation and nasal formulations
Authors:J. Mitchell
Absract:The efficient delivery of inhaled medications via either the oral or nasal route is challenging because of the need to bypass defenses that have evolved to protect the human respiratory tract. The situation is exacerbated when treating the older patient, as there are limitations associated with diminished manual dexterity and cognitive function that may ultimately require the medication be given with the assistance of a caregiver. This chapter first examines the aging respiratory tract, including the likelihood of diseases affecting patency of the airway through the nose and airways of the lungs. The formulations currently available to treat respiratory disease in the older patient are then examined in some detail. Since the device component is a critical part of the inhaler, each of the major classes of delivery device is reviewed, paying attention to the advantages and limitations from the perspective of the older patient. Finally, prospects for development of inhaled medication-based therapy in the near future are considered. Throughout, emphasis is placed on the role of the caregiver as well as the perspective of the patient, given that in many instances, caregiver support will be needed to ensure efficient medication delivery and maintenance of adherence to the prescribed therapy.

doi:10.5414/atp30043
Title:Is the Jethaler useful in children with an impaired ventilation
Authors:M. MüllerP. Bittner-DerschG. HülsJ. PabstH. Lindemann
Absract:In order to prepare a study with a dry powder formulation of amiloride, we examined if the commercially available Jethaler (known also as MAGhaler) could serve as an appropriate device to deliver amiloride to the bronchial mucosa in spite of an impaired ventilation. Sixty-eight children (6-11 years) with asthma and 16 patients (6-18 years) suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF) with mild to severe bronchial obstruction took part in the study. Lung function including body plethysmography was tested. In addition, measurements were performed to determine the forced inspiratory flow (PIF). At least 3 forced inspiratory efforts were performed using a Fleisch pneumotachograph equipped with or without a Jethaler (with a ring tablet of highly compressed budesonide powder) [1]. Maximum inspiratory pressure gradient was measured using a simple manometer (testo 505-P, range ± 13.0 kPa). Based on these data, a special kind of inspiratory resistance (R@sub_beginin@sub_end) was calculated. Patients older than 8 years obtained PIF values above 60 l/min, even if there was a rather strong bronchial obstruction. One 6-year-old CF patient had a PIF of 28 l/min with Jethaler (without Jethaler 102 l/min) and did not manage to surpass the critical value of 30 l/min; 5 of 33 patients, aged 6 to 8 years, had a PIF zwischen 55 und 59 l/min. Handling of the Jethaler was found to be easy. Amiloride serum levels ("trough values") with once-daily amiloride inhalation via Jethaler (plus aerosolized amiloride, bid) were significantly higher than using aerosolized amiloride with a jet nebulizer, exclusively (median ± SEM: 0.6 ± 0.3 with jethaler, 3.1 ± 0.6 ng/ml, respectively, p < 0,0001). Conclusions: These findings suggest that the Jethaler will be an appropriate device to administer drugs in children, even if they suffer from an impaired ventilation. The inhalation of dry powder inhalation in CF patients via Jethaler proved to be useful to improve the compliance.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2007.10.001
Title:Agreement between two methods for assessing bioequivalence of inhaled salbutamol
Authors:F. LavoriniP. GeriG. CamiciottoliM. PistolesiG.A. Fontana
Absract:For inhaled medications, bioequivalence testing is becoming increasingly important owing to the availability of many inhalation devices. We evaluated agreement between the Finney bioassay and the E@sub_beginmax@sub_end model in the assessment of bioequivalence of salbutamol administered via a metered-dose inhaler with a spacer (pMDI+Volumatic) or via a dry-powder inhaler (Diskus) in asthmatic patients with methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction. Eighteen patients inhaled methacholine until FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end decreased by ≈35% of control. Following inhalation of placebo, 200 and 400 mcg salbutamol through the pMDI+Volumatic or the Diskus, changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were repeatedly measured over a 60-min observation period. Bioequivalence of salbutamol administered via the two inhalation devices was assessed by calculating the relative potency of each device by using the Finney 2-by-2 parallel regression analysis and the non-linear, E@sub_beginmax@sub_end model. Agreement between these methods in calculating relative potency was evaluated by using the Bland-Altman method. After salbutamol FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end values were similar irrespective of the device employed, and greater (P<0.01) than those after placebo. However, assessment of relative potencies obtained with both the Finney (1.97, 90% CI 1.62-2.32) and the E@sub_beginmax@sub_end (2.25, 90% CI 1.90-2.60) methods revealed that twice the salbutamol dose was needed to reverse methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction when the drug was inhaled via the Diskus than via the pMDI+Volumatic. The mean difference in relative potency (-0.28, 90% CI -0.001 to -0.56) calculated with both methods did not significantly differ from zero, and none of the individual differences exceeded the limits of agreement. The Finney and the E@sub_beginmax@sub_end methods provide comparable results in the evaluation of bioequivalence of different salbutamol formulations. The pMDI+Volumatic is twice as efficient as the Diskus in lung delivery of salbutamol in asthma patients. © 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2008.0693
Title:A gamma scintigraphy study to investigate lung deposition and clearance of inhaled amikacin-loaded liposomes in healthy male volunteers
Authors:J. WeersB. MetzheiserG. TaylorS. WarrenP. MeersW.R. Perkins
Absract:Background: The purpose of this study was to investigate the inhalation of a liposomal formulation of amikacin in healthy male volunteers in terms of pulmonary deposition, clearance, and safety following nebulization with a commercial jet nebulizer. Methods: Amikacin was encapsulated in liposomes comprised of dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (DPPC) and cholesterol via a proprietary manufacturing process (20 mg/mL final amikacin concentration). The liposomes were radiolabeled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc using the tin chloride labeling method. A nominal dose of 120 mg of drug product was loaded into a PARI LC STAR nebulizer, aerosolized using a PARI Boy compressor where subjects inhaled for 20 min. Lung deposition was determined by gamma scintigraphy in three healthy male volunteers at the following time points (0, 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 h post-administration). Results: Total lung deposition, expressed as a percentage of the emitted dose, was 32.3 ± 3.4%. The time-dependent retention of radiolabeled liposomes was biphasic with an initial rapid reduction in counts, followed by a slower phase to 48 h. The overall mean retention at 24 and 48 h was 60.4 and 38.3% of the initial dose deposited, respectively. The observed clearance of radiolabel is consistent with clearance of amikacin following aerosol delivery to rats. There were no clinically significant changes in laboratory parameters, vital signs, or ECG. No adverse events including cough or bronchospasm were reported. Conclusions: Inhalation of a single nominal dose of 120 mg liposomal amikacin results in prolonged retention of drug-loaded liposomes in the lungs of healthy volunteers. The treatment was well tolerated. © 2009 Mary Ann Liebert, Inc..

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9156-5
Title:Influence of realistic inspiratory flow profiles on fine particle fractions of dry powder aerosol formulations
Authors:G.P. MartinC. MarriottX.-M. Zeng
Absract:Purpose. The purpose of the study was to determine how air flow profiles affect fine particle fractions (FPF) (<5 μm) from dry powder aerosol formulations and whether laser diffraction (LD) could be used to measure FPF of aerosols generated by variable flows. Materials and Methods. Carrier-based formulations containing 1.5% w/w micronized salbutamol base blended with the 63-90 μm fraction of alpha-lactose monohydrate or sorbitol or maltose were aerosolised from a model glass device using either a constant flow rate or a predetermined flow profile. The FPFs of the same aerosolised particles were first measured by LD and then by a liquid impinger. Volunteer inhalation airflow profiles and 3-phase (acceleration, constant flow rate and deceleration) square wave airflow profiles were generated using the Electronic Lung™ and an Inhalation Profile Recorder. Similar experiments were conducted for a carrier-free formulation from the Bricanyl Turbohaler™. Results. Salbutamol FPFs of all carrier-based formulations were found to increase by increasing the initial flow increase rate (FIR) from 200 to 600 l min @sup_begin-1@sup_end s@sup_begin-1@sup_end although they could be placed in an increasing order of maltose blend < sorbitol blend < lactose blend. A significant linear correlation was found between FPFs measured by LD and by inertial impaction (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.95, p<0.01, ANOVA). For the Bricanyl Turbohaler™, increasing FIR from 120 to 600 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end s @sup_begin-1@sup_end for a constant peak flow rate (PFR) of 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end increased the mean Terbutaline FPF from 18.2% to 45.5%. For the volunteer inhalation profiles, a higher FIR tended to be associated with higher PFR, leading to a marked increase in drug FPF due to the combined effect of FIR and PFR. Conclusion. Drug FPF from either carrier-free or carrier-based formulations is determined by both FIR and PFR. LD is a viable technique to measure the performance of dry powder aerosol formulations at realistic inspiratory flow profiles. © 2006 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2021.04.018
Title:The combination of an innovative dry powder for inhalation and a standard cisplatin-based chemotherapy in view of therapeutic intensification against lung tumours
Authors:S. ChraibiR. RosièreL. LarbanoixP. GérardI. HenniaS. LaurentM. VermeerschK. AmighiN. Wauthoz
Absract:Cisplatin is one of the most commonly used chemotherapy in lung cancer despite its high nephrotoxicity leading to an administration only every 3–4 weeks. This study is the first report of a preclinical investigation of therapeutic intensification combining a cisplatin dry powder for inhalation (CIS-DPI) with an intravenous (iv) cisplatin-based treatment. CIS-DPI with 50% cisplatin content (CIS-DPI-50) was developed using lipid excipients through scalable processes (high-speed and high-pressure homogenization and spray-drying). CIS-DPI-50 showed good aerodynamic performance (fine particle fraction of ~ 55% and a mass median aerodynamic particle size of ~ 2 µm) and a seven-fold increase and decrease in C@sub_beginmax@sub_end in the lungs and in plasma, respectively, in comparison with an iv cisplatin solution (CIS-iv) in healthy mice. Finally, the addition of CIS-DPI-50 to the standard cisplatin/paclitaxel iv doublet increased the response rate (67% vs 50%), decreased the tumour growth and prolonged the median survival (31 vs 21 days), compared to the iv doublet in the M109 lung carcinoma model tending to demonstrate a therapeutic intensification of cisplatin.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.10.036
Title:Dry powder inhalation of macromolecules using novel PEG-co-polyester microparticle carriers
Authors:H.M. TawfeekA.R. EvansA. IftikharA.R. MohammedA. ShabirS. SomavarapuG.A. HutcheonI.Y. Saleem
Absract:This study investigated optimizing the formulation parameters for encapsulation of a model mucinolytic enzyme, α-chymotrypsin (α-CH), within a novel polymer; poly(ethylene glycol)-co-poly(glycerol adipate-co-ω-pentadecalactone), PEG-co-(PGA-co-PDL) which were then applied to the formulation of DNase I. α-CH or DNase I loaded microparticles were prepared via spray drying from double emulsion (w @sub_begin1@sub_end/o/w@sub_begin2@sub_end) utilizing chloroform (CHF) as the organic solvent, l-leucine as a dispersibility enhancer and an internal aqueous phase (w @sub_begin1@sub_end) containing PEG4500 or Pluronic@sup_begin®@sup_end F-68 (PLF68). α-CH released from microparticles was investigated for bioactivity using the azocasein assay and the mucinolytic activity was assessed utilizing the degradation of mucin suspension assay. The chemical structure of PEG-co-(PGA-co-PDL) was characterized by @sup_begin1@sup_endH NMR and FT-IR with both analyses confirming PEG incorporated into the polymer backbone, and any unreacted units removed. Optimum formulation α-CH-CHF/PLF68, 1% produced the highest bioactivity, enzyme encapsulation (20.08 ± 3.91%), loading (22.31 ± 4.34 μg/mg), FPF (fine particle fraction) (37.63 ± 0.97%); FPD (fine particle dose) (179.88 ± 9.43 μg), MMAD (mass median aerodynamic diameter) (2.95 ± 1.61 μm), and the mucinolytic activity was equal to the native non-encapsulated enzyme up to 5 h. DNase I-CHF/PLF68, 1% resulted in enzyme encapsulation (17.44 ± 3.11%), loading (19.31 ± 3.27 μg/mg) and activity (81.9 ± 2.7%). The results indicate PEG-co-(PGA-co-PDL) can be considered as a potential biodegradable polymer carrier for dry powder inhalation of macromolecules for treatment of local pulmonary diseases. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.7499/j.issn.1008-8830.2016.05.005
Title:Efficacy of different preparations of budesonide combined with pulmonary surfactant in the treatment of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome: A comparative analysis
Authors:H. KeZ.-K. LiX.-P. YuJ.-Z. Guo
Absract:Objective To study the efficacy of different preparations of budesonide combined with pulmonary surfactant (PS) in improving blood gas levels and preventing bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants with neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS). Methods A total of 184 preterm infants who developed NRDS within 4 hours after birth were randomly administered with PS + continuous inhalation of budesonide aerosol (continuous aerosol group), PS+budesonide solution (solution group), PS + single inhalation of budesonide aerosol (single aerosol group), and PS alone, with 46 neonates in each group. The changes in arterial blood gas levels, rate of invasive mechanical ventilation after treatment, time of assisted ventilation, rate of repeated use of PS, and the incidence of BPD were compared between the four groups. Results On the 2nd to 4th day after treatment, pH, PCO@sub_begin2@sub_end, and oxygenation index (FiO@sub_begin2@sub_end/PaO@sub_begin2@sub_end) showed significant differences among the four groups, and the continuous aerosol group showed the most improvements of all indicators, followed by the solution group, single aerosol group, and PS alone group. The continuous aerosol group had a significantly shorter time of assisted ventilation than the other three groups (P>0.05). The solution group had a significantly shorter time of assisted ventilation than the single aerosol and PS alone groups (P>0.05). The rate of invasive mechanical ventilation after treatment, rate of repeated use of PS, and incidence of BPD showed significant differences among the four groups (P>0.05), and the continuous aerosol group had the lowest rates, followed by the solution group. Conclusions A combination of PS and continuous inhalation of budesonide aerosol has a better efficacy in the treatment of NRDS than a combination of PS and budesonide solution. The difference in reducing the incidence of BDP between the two administration methods awaits further investigation with a larger sample size.

doi:10.2310/8000.2012.120880
Title:Evaluating a clinical practice intervention to promote delivery of salbutamol by metered-dose inhalers with holding chambers in a pediatric emergency department
Authors:B.J. Hill-TaylorK.F. HurleyI. SketrisC. O'ConnellD. SinclairA. Wing
Absract:Objective: The primary objective of this study was to quantify the impact of a clinical practice intervention to promote the delivery of salbutamol by metered-dose inhaler (MDI) in a pediatric emergency department (PED). A secondary objective was to retrospectively document the components of the intervention. Methods: PED inventory data for salbutamol inhalation solution (nebules), MDIs, and holding chambers were obtained from the pharmacy department. Patient data were obtained fromthe hospital's decision support unit. Interrupted time series analysis was used to evaluate trends in salbutamol inventory data, patient triage acuity, and hospital admissions from January 1, 2003, to May 31, 2010. Interviews and administrative documents were used to identify components of the intervention, which began in 2006. Results: There was a 1,215% increase in the proportion of salbutamol delivered as MDIs compared to total inhaled salbutamol (MDI plus nebulization solution) following the intervention (95% CI 1,032% to 1,396%, p < 0.001). Increases in salbutamol MDI use were associated with the implementation of an institution-specific asthma care map. A relative decrease of 32% in the hospital admission rate (absolute 27.25%: 95% CI 28.31 to 26.19, p < 0.001) was associated with the change in salbutamol MDI use and the use of the asthma care map. Conclusions: A multifaceted intervention, designed and implemented by local PED clinical leaders, resulted in a pronounced change in salbutamol inhalation practice, with an associated decrease in admission rates. This intervention demonstrated many of the criteria for successful health system change. Findings from this research may be contextualized to inform change elsewhere. © Canadian Association of Emergency Physicians.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2016.1306
Title:Predicting Exposure after Oral Inhalation of the Selective Glucocorticoid Receptor Modulator, AZD5423, Based on Dose, Deposition Pattern, and Mechanistic Modeling of Pulmonary Disposition
Authors:P. BäckmanU. TehlerB. Olsson
Absract:Background: Exposure following oral inhalation depends on the deposition pattern of the inhaled aerosol, the extent and rate of oral and pulmonary absorption, as well as systemic distribution and clearance. For lipophilic inhaled compounds with low water solubility and high permeability, the extent and rate of pulmonary absorption can be assumed dependent on deposition pattern as well as dissolution rate. Materials and Methods: A mechanistic model of airway deposition, mucociliary clearance, dissolution, absorption, and dissipation was applied to simulate systemic exposure of the novel selective glucocorticoid receptor modulator, AZD5423, when dosed to healthy volunteers using two different nebulizers and two different dry powder inhalers in combination with two different primary particle size distributions. Results from simulations were compared with observed pharmacokinetic data. Results: Variations in systemic exposure (plasma concentration profile, AUC, and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) resulting from variations in dose, deposition pattern, and dissolution rate could not be predicted solely from variations in delivered dose or predicted lung dose (as assessed using an anatomical mouth-Throat model), suggesting incomplete pulmonary bioavailability. However, simulated systemic exposure well predicted observed systemic exposures for all tested formulations and devices. Furthermore, simulations of airway tissue exposure suggested that it was not directly linked to systemic exposure. Conclusions: Results support the initial hypothesis that systemic exposure of poorly soluble inhaled drugs is a complex but predictable function of dose, deposition pattern, and rate of dissolution. Furthermore, simulations indicate that local exposure for these types of drugs is not well correlated with systemic exposure. Hence, equivalence with respect to local exposure, and thus with respect to pharmacodynamic effect, cannot be fully inferred from systemic pharmacokinetic equivalence alone.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.1523
Title:In Vitro Measurement of Regional Nasal Drug Delivery with Flonase,@sup_begin®@sup_end Flonase@sup_begin®@sup_end Sensimist,™ and MAD Nasal™ in Anatomically Correct Nasal Airway Replicas of Pediatric and Adult Human Subjects
Authors:S. HosseiniX. WeiJ.V. WilkinsC.P. FergussonR. MohammadiG. VoronaL. Golshahi
Absract:Background: The majority of current nasal delivery devices, commercialized for children, are developed for adults. Differences in the dose reaching the target are expected due to significant differences between the pediatric and adult nasal airway geometries and their inhalation patterns. This study aims to compare the efficacy of most common nasal drug delivery devices in terms of regional delivery of suspension and solution formulations in pediatric and adult subjects. Methods: Anatomically correct nasal models of 2-, 5-, and 50-year old subjects were developed to evaluate regional nasal delivery of suspensions of fluticasone propionate and fluticasone furoate delivered with Flonase@sup_begin®@sup_end and Flonase@sup_begin®@sup_end Sensimist™, respectively, and the delivery of an aqueous solution of a model drug, administered with MAD Nasal™. Relevant inhalation patterns were considered for each nasal airway geometry. Controlled administration methods were used, and all contributing parameters, including particle size, velocity, and plume geometry, are reported. Results: Regional deposition patterns resulting from Flonase@sup_begin®@sup_end Sensimist™ and Flonase@sup_begin®@sup_end were not significantly different in each replica (p > 0.05), despite their different plume geometry and droplet size distributions. However, there was a significant difference in deposition of nasal sprays between the pediatric (2- and 5-year old) and adult models (p < 0.05), while no statistical differences were found between the two pediatric models (p > 0.05). The MAD atomizer resulted in different deposition patterns in all three subjects (p < 0.05). Conclusion: Nasal sprays are not adequate delivery devices for pediatric population, due to the narrower nasal passage and greater anterior deposition (∼60%). MAD atomizer resulted in significantly less anterior deposition (∼10%-15%) compared to the nasal pumps, but there was ∼30% run off to the throat. An in vitro platform incorporating anatomically correct nasal geometries and inhalation patterns can guide the development of age-appropriate nasal drug delivery devices.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2006.11.020
Title:Beclometasone dipropionate extrafine aerosol versus fluticasone propionate in children with asthma
Authors:W.M.C. van AalderenD. PriceF.M. De BaetsJ. Price
Absract:Beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) extrafine is a hydrofluoroalkane-based, chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-free inhalation aerosol. This study was conducted to determine whether BDP extrafine and CFC-fluticasone proprionate (FP) aerosols were equivalent in terms of efficacy and tolerability in children with symptomatic mild-to-moderate asthma. Male and female patients (aged 5-12 yr) with an asthma diagnosis for ≥3 months, peak expiratory flow (PEF) ≥60% of predicted normal and suboptimal asthma control were randomised to double-blind treatment with BDP extrafine 200 μg day@sup_begin-1@sup_end (n=139) or CFC-FP 200 μg day@sup_begin-1@sup_end (n=141) for up to 18 weeks. After 6 and 12 weeks, study medication was 'stepped down' to 100 and 50 μg day@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively, if patients had achieved good asthma control. Patients with poor asthma control discontinued from the study and those with intermediate control continued in the study but did not undergo a dose reduction. The estimated treatment difference in morning PEF% predicted at 6 weeks was -1.9% (90% CI -4.9, 1.0). There was a trend towards a greater increase in forced vital capacity (% predicted) in the BDP extrafine group (5.3 versus 0.4%; p=0.084). A 'step-down' in therapy to 100 μg day@sup_begin-1@sup_end was possible in 36% and 42% of patients in the BDP extrafine and CFC-FP groups, respectively, at 6 weeks. Both drugs were well tolerated. BDP extrafine and CFC-FP aerosols were equally effective at improving asthma control in children with mild-to-moderate asthma at the same daily dose. © 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1208/s12249-020-01803-z
Title:Autophagy-Inducing Inhalable Co-crystal Formulation of Niclosamide-Nicotinamide for Lung Cancer Therapy
Authors:E. RayK. VaghasiyaA. SharmaR. ShuklaR. KhanA. KumarR.K. Verma
Absract:Niclosamide (NIC), an anthelminthic drug, is found to be promising in overcoming the problem of various types of drug-resistant cancer. In spite of strong anti-proliferative effect, NIC shows low aqueous solubility, leading to poor bioavailability. To overcome this limitation, and enhance its physicochemical properties and pharmacokinetic profile, we used co-crystallization technique as a promising strategy. In this work, we brought together the crystal and particle engineering at a time using spray drying to enhance physicochemical and aerodynamic properties of co-crystal particle for inhalation purpose. We investigated the formation and evaluation of pharmaceutical co-crystals of niclosamide-nicotinamide (NIC-NCT) prepared by rapid, continuous and scalable spray drying method and compared with conventional solvent evaporation technique. The newly formed co-crystal was evaluated by XRPD, FTIR, Raman spectroscopy and DSC, which showed an indication of formation of H bonds between drug (NIC) and co-former (NCT) as a major binding force in co-crystal development. The particle geometry of co-crystals including spherical shape, size 1–5 μm and aerodynamic properties (ED, 97.1 ± 8.9%; MMAD, 3.61 ± 0.87 μm; FPF, 71.74 ± 6.9% and GSD 1.46) attributes suitable for inhalation. For spray-dried co-crystal systems, an improvement in solubility characteristics (≥ 14.8-fold) was observed, relative to pure drug. To investigate the anti-proliferative activity, NIC-NCT co-crystals were investigated on A549 human lung adenomas cells, which showed a superior cytotoxic activity compared with pure drug. Mechanistically, NIC-NCT co-crystals enhanced autophagic flux in cancer cell which demonstrates autophagy-mediated cell death as shown by confocal microscopy. This technique could help in improving bioavailability of drug, hence reducing the need for high dosages and signifying a novel paradigm for future clinical applications.

doi:10.1007/s13346-019-00690-7
Title:Inhalation of sustained release microparticles for the targeted treatment of respiratory diseases
Authors:G. PulivendalaS. BaleC. Godugu
Absract:Delivering drugs through inhalation for systemic and local applications has been in practice since several decades to treat various diseases. In recent times, inhalation drug delivery is becoming one of the highly focused areas of research in the pharmaceutical industry. It is being considered as one of the major portals for delivering drugs because of its wide range of advantages like requirement of low concentrations of drug to reach therapeutic efficacy, surpassing first pass metabolism and a very low incidence of side effects as compared to conventional delivery of drugs. Owing to these favorable characteristics of pulmonary drug delivery, diverse pharmaceutical formulations like liposomes, nanoparticles, and microparticles are developed through consistent efforts for delivery drugs to lungs in suitable form. However, drug-loaded microparticles have displayed various advantages over the other pharmaceutical dosage forms which give a cutting edge over other inhalational drug delivery systems. Assuring results with respect to sustained release through inhalational delivery of drug-loaded microparticles from pre-clinical studies are anticipative of similar benefits in the clinical settings. This review centralizes partly on the advantages of inhalational microparticles over other inhalational dosage forms and largely on the therapeutic applications and future perspectives of inhalable microparticle drug delivery systems.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.03.006
Title:Emerging inhalation aerosol devices and strategies: Where are we headed?
Authors:Q.T. ZhouP. TangS.S.Y. LeungJ.G.Y. ChanH.-K. Chan
Absract:Novel inhaled therapeutics including antibiotics, vaccines and anti-hypertensives, have led to innovations in designing suitable delivery systems. These emerging design technologies are in urgent demand to ensure high aerosolisation performance, consistent efficacy and satisfactory patient adherence. Recent vibrating-mesh and software technologies have resulted in nebulisers that have remarkably accurate dosing and portability. Alternatively, dry powder inhalers (DPIs) have become highly favourable for delivering high-dose and single-dose drugs with the aid of advanced particle engineering. In contrast, innovations are needed to overcome the technical constrains in drug-propellant incompatibility and delivering high-dose drugs with pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs). This review discusses recent and emerging trends in pulmonary drug delivery systems.

doi:10.2478/afpuc-2021-0010
Title:Liposomes as antiviral drug carriers
Authors:M. KlacsováA. ČelkováA. BúcsiD. Uhríková
Absract:The influenza virus is the main cause of viral airway infections occurring worldwide and is related to severe annual epidemics. Currently, few drugs are available to treat pulmonary viral infections, like oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) administered orally, zanamivir (Relenza®) administered by inhalation, intravenous peramivir (Rapivab®) and laninamivir (Inavir®) taken as a single inhaled dose of dry powder. These antivirotics bind to and inhibit the active site of the neuraminidase enzymes, which are essential for the release of progeny virions from the infected host cells, and thus reduce viral replication. A huge effort is made to develop new orally administered neuraminidase inhibitors with sufficient bioavailability and optimal drug formulation. Liposomes are largely used as drug carriers for both lipophilic and hydrophilic drugs. Lipophilic drugs are embedded within the lipid bilayer, while hydrophilic drugs are enclosed in the water core of the liposome. In this work, we studied the physicochemical properties of oseltamivir-liposome and zanamivir-liposome complexes and compared them to some reference inhibitors of cysteine proteases of coronaviruses encapsulated in model liposomes. The lipophilicity of studied drugs was defined by determination of their lipid-water partition coefficient. The size of drug- liposome complexes was investigated by dynamic light scattering. Due to the interaction of a drug with membrane lipids, their thermodynamic parameters, pre-transition and main phase transition temperatures, and transition enthalpies are influenced. These parameters were studied by differential scanning calorimetry. The excimer fluoresce was used to study the effect of antivirotics on the lateral pressure profile across the lipid bilayer. Obtained results allow us to deduce structural and thermal stability and potential drug release from liposomal formulations.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2002.1387
Title:Lung deposition of salbutamol in healthy human subjects from the MAGhaler dry powder inhaler
Authors:S. NewmanS. MalikP. HirstG. PitcairnA. HeideJ. PabstA. DinkelakerW. Fleischer
Absract:The MAGhaler (Mundipharma GmbH) is a multidose dry powder inhaler (DPI) containing a novel formulation of drug and lactose compacted by an isostatic pressing technique (GGU GmbH). On actuation, a precise dose is metered from a compacted ring-shaped drug tablet. In this study, the lung deposition of salbutamol from this device has been assessed. Ten healthy non-smoking subjects completed a two-way cross-over study, assessing the pulmonary deposition of salbutamol (200 μg) from the MAGhaler at high (60 l/min) and low (30 l/min) peak inhaled flow rates (PIFRs), representing maximal and sub-maximal inspiratory efforts. The formulation was radiolabelled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc, and lung and oropharyngeal depositions were quantified by gamma scintigraphy. The mean (SD)% of the delivered dose deposited in the lungs was 26.4 (4.3)% at 60 l/min and 21.1 (5.1)% at 30 l/min (P < 0.05), corresponding to mean lung depositions of 52.8 and 42.2 μg salbutamol, respectively. The distribution of drug within different lung regions did not vary significantly with inhaled flow rate. The data provided proof of concept for the novel inhaler device and the innovative drug formulation. In comparison with previous deposition data obtained with other DPIs, the lung deposition was relatively high, relatively reproducible (coefficient of variation 16% at 60 l/min) and relatively insensitive to the change in peak inhaled flow rate. © 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/13543784.15.8.981
Title:Ciclosporin aerosol in lung transplantation
Authors:G.J. Burckart
Absract:The development of ciclosporin as an aerosol for rejection immuno-suppression following lung transplantation started as a research idea at the University of Pittsburgh in 1989. In the 17 subsequent years, the development of the aerosol, testing in animals and several protocols testing the drug in patients have all taken place at the University of Pittsburgh and State University of New York. No other medical advances have displaced the potential of the drug during this time in lung transplantation, which still has a dismal 5-year survival of 50%. Therefore, the recent publication of the double-blind, placebo-controlled study of aerosolised ciclosporin for long-term use to significantly improve patient survival was heralded as a breakthrough by the commentary in the New England Journal of Medicine. Nevertheless, multiple problems may prevent this drug from ever receiving FDA approval and reaching the market. These problems include the need for a multi-centre study, a lack of surrogate markers for chronic rejection in lung transplant patients and a drug formulation that will prevent the expansion of the use of aerosolised ciclosporin for other indications. © 2006 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2013.ab01
Title:An in vitro testing strategy for the development of novel inhaled therapeutics using human 3D airway epithelium model (mucilairtm)
Authors:S. ConstantS. HuangL. Wiszniewski
Absract:In order to develop efficient tool and formulations for delivering drug to the lungs, in vitro cell models of the human airway epithelia would be invaluable. Epithelix has developed a novel in vitro cell model of the human airway epithelium named MucilAir™. MucilAir™ maintains the fully differentiated, morphologically and functionally, characteristics of the native tissues for more than one year (tight junctions, cilia beating, mediators release, ion transport and CypP450s activity). Epithelia from several pathologies can be reconstructed (e.g. Asthma, Allergic Rhinitis, COPD, CF, etc.). This model is used for studying the human respiratory diseases, and for testing the long-termeffects of drugs candidates. The effects can be monitored using a multi-endpoints strategy: Cell viability, LDH release, TEER, quantification of mediators release, gene expression profiling, etc.Several applications of MucilAir™relevant to intranasal/intrabronchial drug delivery, evaluation of pro- or anti-inflammatory effect of drug candidates and formulations, acute, long-term and repeated dose inhalation toxicity testing, cilia beating frequency and mucociliary clearance are presented.We showed thatMucilAir™is a reliable and reproducible method for evaluating the drug permeation across the airway epithelia. A 90 day study of subchronic and repeated exposure to formaldehyde demonstrated the robustness of MucilAir™ and its relevance for studying the chronic toxicity of drugs as well as drug formulation. Furthermore, MucilAir™ could support the infection and replication of respiratory viruses such as H1N1 influenza, RSV-16A. In conclusion, these selected examples illustrate that MucilAir ™ is a powerful tool for advancing the drug delivery to the lungs.

doi:10.13040/IJPSR.0975-8232.10(8).3575-82
Title:Nebulized drug delivery: An overview
Authors:S. PrajapatiS. SahaC. Dilip KumarB. Sahoo
Absract:Inhaled Pharmacological therapy is key to treatments for patients with asthma and COPD. People who suffered from COPD died every year in low- and middle-income countries. The primary reason for COPD is tobacco smoking or second-hand smoke. Another risk factor is air pollution, dust, and fumes. Current guidelines endorsed inhaled pharmacology therapy as the favorable route of administration for treating COPD. Bronchodilators (β@sub_begin2@sub_end agonists and antimuscarinics) are the anchor of the pharmacology therapy in patients with COPD, with long-acting approved for patients with ordinary to serious symptoms or those who are at higher risk for COPD aggravations. Dry powder inhaler (DPI) pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) is the frequently used drug delivery devices, but they may be sparse in various clinical scenarios. There are a lot of drugs become available in solutions; suspensions form to treat patients suffered from COPD with nebulized drug delivery, which supplies benefits similar to drugs delivered by the conventional delivery system and better quality of life. A successful pulmonary administration requires a harmonic interaction between the drug formulation, the inhaler device, and the patient. However, the biggest major problem for lack of desired effect or adverse outcomes is the improper use of the inhaler device due to lack of training in how to use the device or how to coordinate actuation and inhalation. This review describes the operational and mechanical features of nebulizer delivery devices concerning mechanisms of aerosol generation, their use with different formulations, and their advantages and limitations.

pui:358462754
Title:Nanomedicine in pulmonary delivery.
Authors:H.M. MansourY.S. RheeX. Wu
Absract:The lung is an attractive target for drug delivery due to noninvasive administration via inhalation aerosols, avoidance of first-pass metabolism, direct delivery to the site of action for the treatment of respiratory diseases, and the availability of a huge surface area for local drug action and systemic absorption of drug. Colloidal carriers (ie, nanocarrier systems) in pulmonary drug delivery offer many advantages such as the potential to achieve relatively uniform distribution of drug dose among the alveoli, achievement of improved solubility of the drug from its own aqueous solubility, a sustained drug release which consequently reduces dosing frequency, improves patient compliance, decreases incidence of side effects, and the potential of drug internalization by cells. This review focuses on the current status and explores the potential of colloidal carriers (ie, nanocarrier systems) in pulmonary drug delivery with special attention to their pharmaceutical aspects. Manufacturing processes, in vitro/in vivo evaluation methods, and regulatory/toxicity issues of nanomedicines in pulmonary delivery are also discussed.

doi:10.1016/j.athoracsur.2003.12.096
Title:Aerosolized iloprost as a bridge to lung transplantation in a patient with cystic fibrosis and pulmonary hypertension
Authors:P. TissièresL. NicodC. Barazzone-ArgiroffoP.C. RimensbergerM. Beghetti
Absract:We describe a patient with cystic fibrosis, end-stage lung disease, and secondary pulmonary hypertension in whom aerosolized iloprost was effective in lowering pulmonary artery pressure and improving functional status, thus proving successful as a bridge to lung transplantation. Inhaled iloprost may be an efficient and selective approach to treat pulmonary hypertension related to end-stage obstructive pulmonary disease. © 2004 by The Society of Thoracic Surgeons.

pui:15095971
Title:Treatment of acute bronchoconstriction in children with use of a tube spacer aerosol and a dry powder inhaler
Authors:S. Pedersen
Absract:In a double blind cross-over study 24 children suffering from acute bronchoconstriction were treated with either placebo, or terbutaline delivered by a pressurized aerosol with a tube spacer (TS), or salbutamol from a dry powder inhaler (Rotahaler = RO). Both active treatments resulted in a significant increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end as compared with placebo (P < 0.001). Furthermore, TS treatment resulted in significantly greater improvement in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end than treatment with the RO (P < 0.05). Under the conditions of marked airways obstruction problems with correct handling of the RO (loading and breaking the capsule) were prevalent and many children were unable to empty the RO capsule. These difficulties seemed to account for the smaller bronchodilation after RO treatment and were not seen under quiet circumstances. It is recommended that inhalation therapy in children is supervised by an adult during periods of marked airways disease.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2021.04.003
Title:The effect of ethanol on the habit and in vitro aerodynamic results of dry powder inhalation formulations containing ciprofloxacin hydrochloride
Authors:E. BenkeC. WinterP. Szabó-RévészE. RobleggR. Ambrus
Absract:In the case of dry powder inhalation systems (DPIs), the development of carrier-free formulations has gained increased attention. Thereby, spray-drying is a promising technology and is widely used to produce carrier-free DPIs. Numerous works have been published about the co-spray-drying of active ingredients with various solid excipients and their effect on the physicochemical characteristics and aerodynamic properties of the formulations. However, only a few studies have been reported about the role of the solvents used in the stock solutions of spray-dried formulations. In the present work, DPI microcomposites containing ciprofloxacin hydrochloride were prepared by spray-drying in the presence of different ethanol concentrations. The work expresses the roughness, depth and width of the dimples for particle size as a novel calculation possibility, and as a correlation between the MMAD/D@sub_begin0.5@sub_end ratio and correlating it with cohesion work, these new terms and correlations have not been published – to the best of our knowledge – which has resulted in gap-filling findings. As a result, different proportions of solvent mixtures could be interpreted and placed in a new perspective, in which the influence of different concentrations of ethanol on the habit of the DPI formulations, and thus on in vitro aerodynamic results. Based on these, it became clear why we obtained the best in vitro aerodynamic results for DPI formulation containing 30% ethanol in the stock solution.

doi:10.1007/s11095-015-1808-x
Title:Sustained Pulmonary Delivery of a Water-Soluble Antibiotic Without Encapsulating Carriers
Authors:W. OngP. NowakY. CuL. SchopfJ. BourassaE. EnlowS.M. MoskowitzH. Chen
Absract:Purpose: Traditional polymeric nanoparticle formulations for prolonged local action during inhalation therapy are highly susceptible to muco-ciliary clearance. In addition, polymeric carriers are typically administered in high doses due to finite drug loading. For toxicological reasons, these carriers and their degradation byproducts are undesirable for inhalation therapy, particularly for chronic use, due to potential lung accumulation. Methods: We synthesized a novel, insoluble prodrug (MRPD) of a time-dependent β-lactam, meropenem, and formulated MRPD into mucus-penetrating crystals (MRPD-MPCs). After characterizing their mucus mobility (in vitro) and stability, we evaluated the lung pharmacokinetics of intratracheally-instilled MRPD-MPCs and a meropenem solution in guinea pigs. Results: Meropenem levels rapidly declined in the lungs of guinea pigs receiving meropenem solution compared to those given MRPD-MPCs. At 9 h after dosing, drug levels in the lungs of animals that received meropenem solution dropped to 12 ng/mL, whereas those that received MRPD-MPCs maintained an average drug level of ≥1,065 ng/mL over a 12-h period. Conclusions: This work demonstrated that the combination of prodrug chemistry and mucus-penetrating platform created nanoparticles that produced sustained levels of meropenem in guinea pig lungs. This strategy represents a novel approach for sustained local drug delivery to the lung without using encapsulating matrices.

doi:10.4155/tde.10.1
Title:Applications of capsule dosing techniques for use in dry powder inhalers
Authors:D. Edwards
Absract:Dry powder inhaler (DPI) devices that utilize two-piece capsules as the dose-holding system can require specialized dosing equipment to fill the capsules. Such products are known as 'premetered' because they contain previously measured doses in a dose carrier (the capsule). The capsule is either inserted into the device during manufacture or by the patient prior to use. The dose is inhaled directly from the device/premetered unit by the patient. Regardless of DPI design, the most crucial attributes are the reproducibility of the discharged dose and the particle size distribution of the drug within that dose. Filling inhalation powders into capsules often requires specialized equipment in order to handle the very low weights that are often contained in each dose. The equipment typically needs to incorporate in-process checks to confirm the filling process has been correctly performed, with the ability to reject any under- or over-filled capsules, in line with established quality criteria. In the majority of cases, such processing equipment is maintained in a temperature and humidity controlled environment to avoid moisture uptake and potential powder aggregation and, in particular, to ensure the powder is free flowing on introduction into the capsule. This ensures that the emitted dose is maximized and controlled according to industry guidelines and that the fine particle fraction provides an optimum clinical benefit. Several methods of dosing precise doses of powder into capsules are available and include dosator technology and tamp processes, as well as equipment that utilize the 'pepper-shaker' or 'pepper-pot' principle for the accurate dispensing of powders. This article reviews the suitability of each method with respect to dosing inhalation powder into capsules for use in DPI devices, and discusses why the pepper-pot principle could offer a number of clear benefits. © 2010 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1586/ern.11.62
Title:New drug delivery options for migraine
Authors:M. VikelisA.M. Rapoport
Absract:Dry powder inhaler (DPI) devices that utilize two-piece capsules as the dose-holding system can require specialized dosing equipment to fill the capsules. Such products are known as 'premetered' because they contain previously measured doses in a dose carrier (the capsule). The capsule is either inserted into the device during manufacture or by the patient prior to use. The dose is inhaled directly from the device/premetered unit by the patient. Regardless of DPI design, the most crucial attributes are the reproducibility of the discharged dose and the particle size distribution of the drug within that dose. Filling inhalation powders into capsules often requires specialized equipment in order to handle the very low weights that are often contained in each dose. The equipment typically needs to incorporate in-process checks to confirm the filling process has been correctly performed, with the ability to reject any under- or over-filled capsules, in line with established quality criteria. In the majority of cases, such processing equipment is maintained in a temperature and humidity controlled environment to avoid moisture uptake and potential powder aggregation and, in particular, to ensure the powder is free flowing on introduction into the capsule. This ensures that the emitted dose is maximized and controlled according to industry guidelines and that the fine particle fraction provides an optimum clinical benefit. Several methods of dosing precise doses of powder into capsules are available and include dosator technology and tamp processes, as well as equipment that utilize the 'pepper-shaker' or 'pepper-pot' principle for the accurate dispensing of powders. This article reviews the suitability of each method with respect to dosing inhalation powder into capsules for use in DPI devices, and discusses why the pepper-pot principle could offer a number of clear benefits. © 2010 Future Science Ltd.

pui:16184152
Title:A double-blind comparative study of pelletized cromolyn versus cromolyn blend in the treatment of asthma
Authors:D.V. VakilA. AyiomamitisN. NizamiR.M. Nizami
Absract:In a randomized, double-blind, group comparative study, 100 asthmatic patients known to be responsive to cromolyn sodium were treated either with pelletized cromolyn (cromolyn sodium, 20 mg) or with cromolyn blend, Intal® (cromolyn sodium, 20 mg + lactose, 20 mg). There was no statistically significant difference between the two treatment groups for asthma severity, breathlessness on exertion, cough, the number of inhalations needed to obtain the dose from the capsule, and morning peak flow. No local or systemic side effects were encountered during the 6-month duration of the study. It is concluded that pelletized cromolyn offers most of the advantages of cromolyn therapy without the need for the patients to inhale lactose at the same time. Also, pelletized cromolyn has a distinct therapeutic advantage for use in lactose-intolerant patients.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.07.054
Title:Dosing considerations for inhaled biologics
Authors:S. FerratiT. WuS.R. KanapuramH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:The number of biologics in the therapeutic development pipeline is increasing including those delivered though inhalation (Morales, 2017; Fathe, 2016). Biologics comprise a broad variety of complex macromolecules with unique physicochemical characteristics. These distinctive characteristics control their pharmacological mechanisms of action, stability, and ultimately affect their processing, formulation, and delivery requirements. This review systematically covers crucial aspects of biologic powders formulations and dry powder inhalers which need to be taken into consideration to establish the drug loading and the payload to be delivered to reach the desired clinical dose.

doi:10.4155/tde.10.110
Title:Annual inhaled drug delivery conference
Authors:A. Leone-BayC. Smutney
Absract:The Annual Inhaled Drug Delivery Conference organized by Management Forum was held in London, UK, 9-10 November 2010. The meeting focused on a range of disease therapies from the pulmonary indications routinely treated with inhaled medicines (asthma, cystic firbrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) to novel applications of the inhalation route to treat systemic diseases (irritable bowel disease, schizophrenia, migraine, diabetes and obesity). © 2011 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1021/la7020098
Title:Biodegradable nanoparticle flocculates for dry powder aerosol formulation
Authors:L. ShiC.J. PlumleyC. Berkland
Absract:Uncontrolled agglomeration presents a formidable encumbrance to nanoparticle formulation as a dry powder for inhalation therapy. Spray-drying and freeze-drying of nanosuspensions has demonstrated some success in creating dry powders composed of agglomerated nanoparticles with appropriate aerodynamic properties. These controlled drying processes, however, may require an undesirable amount of excipient to maintain an active therapeutic while generating dry powders and may not offer the desired control over agglomerate size and aerosolizability. As a potential alternative approach, a method for flocculating nanoparticles in solution followed by freeze-drying is reported. Biodegradable poly(DL-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles were self-assembled into floes via electrostatic interactions between nanoparticles coated with oppositely charged polyelectrolytes. The size of the nanoparticle floes was readily controlled by manipulating the mixing ratio of charged nanoparticles. Freeze-drying the flocculated nanoparticles produced dry powders exhibiting low density (∼0.1 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end), a weblike morphology, and desirable aerodynamic properties suited for dry powder aerosols. © 2007 American Chemical Society.

doi:10.1097/00000539-200211000-00018
Title:Caudal neostigmine, bupivacaine, and their combination for postoperative pain management after hypospadias surgery in children
Authors:M. AbdulatifM. El-Sanabary
Absract:In a randomized, double-blinded study, we examined the analgesic efficacy of caudal neostigmine, bupivacaine, or a mixture of both drugs in 60 children. After the induction of general anesthesia, children were allocated randomly into three groups (n = 20) to receive a caudal injection of either 0.25% bupivacaine 1 mL/kg, with or without neostigmine 2 μg/kg, or neostigmine 2 μg/kg in normal saline 1 mL/kg. Intraoperatively, children receiving caudal bupivacaine or a bupivacaine/neostigmine mixture maintained hemodynamic stability, required less inhaled anesthetics, and had a shorter recovery time compared with the caudal neostigmine alone. Postoperatively, the caudal bupivacaine/neostigmine mixture resulted in superior analgesia compared with the other two groups. Recovery to first rescue analgesic times were (mean ± SD) 22.8 ± 2.9 h, 8.1 ± 5.9 h, and 5.2 ± 2.1 h in the bupivacaine/neostigmine, bupivacaine, and neostigmine groups, respectively (P < 0.001). In addition, the bupivacaine and neostigmine groups received more doses of paracetamol than the bupivacaine/neostigmine group to maintain adequate analgesia in the first 24 postoperative h. Postoperative vomiting occurred in 25%, 10%, and 30% in the caudal bupivacaine/neostigmine, bupivacaine, and neostigmine groups, respectively (P < 0.01). We conclude that caudal neostigmine 2 μg/kg provides postoperative analgesia comparable to caudal bupivacaine in children undergoing hypospadias repair surgery.

pui:24197507
Title:Preference for the Diskhaler rather than the metered dose inhaler in patients with airway obstruction
Authors:W.-B. Shieh
Absract:A powder system, the Diskhaler inhaler (DI) has been developed to overcome the limitations of the metered dose inhaler (MDI) in the treatment of obstructive airway diseases. Seventy-three patients were enrolled in this prospective study to compare these 2 modes of treatment. The first 2 weeks involved using the DI and the second 2 weeks the MDI. We found that the Diskhaler was easy to learn to use with a success rate of 68.0% on the first attempt, and 100% by the third. Only 4.8% patients could not perform the whole procedure perfectly two weeks later, compared with a 9.5% failure rate with the MDI. The use of the DI did not result in hand-breathing coordination problems as found in 25% of MDI users. After two weeks of use, 65.6% preferred the Diskhaler (p < 0.001), 89.1% felt it was more convenient to use (P < 0.001), and 85.1% felt it was easier to carry around (P < 0.01) compared with previous devices used. Among the 52 patients who completed the study using both inhalers, more patients (92.3%) using the DI were able to use the device correctly than those using the MDI (65.1%). After 2 weeks of use, 100% of the Diskhalers were still working, and 85.0% were kept clean. The only problem encountered was that 0.2% of the blisters had not been punctured appropriately. This should be emphasized when teaching the patients. In conclusion, the Diskhaler is easier to learn, simpler to manipulate and more convenient to use resulting in an increased patient compliance. It is also environmentally a better choice for inhalation therapy.

pui:628119145
Title:Abstracts from the Aerosol Society Drug Delivery to the Lungs 29
Authors:W.-B. Shieh
Absract:The proceedings contain 85 papers. The topics discussed include: assessing central and peripheral pulmonary deposition of three fluticasone propionate (FP) dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations with different aerodynamic particle size distributions (APSD) in healthy subjects via population pharmacokinetics modeling; comparison of human cell lines for risk assessment of aerosolized pesticides; effect of spray dried formulation on the aerosol performance of a novel dry powder inhaler; in vitro activity of inhalable microparticles containing anti-TB drugs and an efflux pump inhibitor against mycobacteria infections; cyclodextrin-stabilized ion-pair complexes enhance drug lung uptake via the polyamine transporter; glycemic profile in rats after pulmonary administration of a pure insulin powder; and comparison of aerosol characteristics and nicotine delivery by conventional pharmaceutical inhalation devices and electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS).

doi:10.1183/1393003.congress-2017.PA4125
Title:Dry powder inhaled ribavirin in healthy volunteers: Safety, tolerability, lung and systemic pharmacokinetics
Authors:J. BilliardS. BakerV. ChandrasekaranF. Van Den BergS. YangE. Dumont
Absract:Inhaled Ribavirin is used to treat respiratory syncytial virus infection in infants and could be used to treat respiratory viral infections in COPD patients, if effective levels could be conveniently delivered to the lung. An inhalable ribavirin was manufactured using Liquidia's PRINT® (Particle Replication In Non-wetting Templates) technology producing 1 μm uniformly shaped particles, which improves delivery to the lung compared to conventional formulations. Modelling predicts that bronchoalveolar epithelial lining fluid (ELF) Cmax levels > 200 μM could be achieved, which is above EC50 of ribavirin against respiratory viruses involved in COPD. This was a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, single dose escalating study in healthy volunteers, investigating doses of 7.5, 15, 30, and 60 mg inhaled ribavirin PRINT compared to placebo. Lung function and vital signs were monitored during and after the inhalation. Ribavirin levels in the ELF were assessed by bronchoalveolar lavage within 1 h after dosing (after the predicted lung Tmax). Serial blood samples were taken for systemic PK analysis. No clinically significant changes in vital signs, ECGs, or spirometry were observed and no serious adverse events (SAE) reported. 33 non-severe AEs were reported by 25 subjects (16 possibly drug-related). Model-based extrapolation of the observed ELF ribavirin levels predicts that bronchoalveolar Cmax exceeded 200 μM following both 30 and 60 mg doses. Liquidia PRINT technology allows effective delivery of ribavirin to the lung. Inhaled ribavirin formulated using Liquidia PRINT technology was well-tolerated with no withdrawals due to AEs and no SAEs.

doi:10.1007/s10072-010-0304-7
Title:New acute treatments for headache
Authors:A.M. Rapoport
Absract:Although we have several acute care medications for the treatment of migraine, we are always looking for new medications to treat our patients. Patients often say that their headaches are not under optimal control and would be happy to try another medication. Patients look for faster onset of relief, more complete relief, no recurrent headache and no adverse events. This article will cover some new and some anticipated acute care products, CGRP antagonists, sumatriptan by iontophoretic patch, sumatriptan by needle-free injections, DHE by oral inhalation and diclofenac potassium in a sachet. Botulinum toxin therapy, although a preventive measure, will be mentioned at the end.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2006.03.005
Title:Pharmacoscintigraphic evaluation of lipid dry powder budesonide formulations for inhalation
Authors:T. SebtiG. PilcerB. Van GansbekeS. GoldmanA. MichilsF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:Lung deposition of new formulations of budesonide, using solid lipid microparticles (SLmP) as a pharmaceutically acceptable filler and carrier for inhalation aerosols, and administered from a dry powder inhaler (Cyclohaler@sup_begin®@sup_end), were compared with that from Pulmicort@sup_begin®@sup_end Turbuhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end. Six healthy volunteers took part in a three-way randomized cross-over study, and inhaled a nominal dose of 400 μg budesonide, labelled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc, on each study day. Lung deposition was determined by gamma scintigraphy and by a pharmacokinetic method. The percentage of dose (SD) in the whole lung was 49.9 (3.7)% for the lipidic matricial form (M) and 62.8 (4.9)% for the lipidic physical blend formulation (PB). These results corresponded well with the in vitro fine particle assessment. In comparison with data recorded in literature for in vivo deposition obtained with Pulmicort@sup_begin®@sup_end Turbuhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end, it was estimated that lung deposition was 1.5 and 2.0 times higher for the M and PB formulations, respectively. Furthermore, the relative drug availability obtained from the pharmacokinetic evaluation, expressed as the percentage of pulmonary absorption of the comparator product, was 154% and 220% for M and PB, respectively. The results of the present study indicate that pulmonary administration using SLmP gives a prominent and significant increase in budesonide lung deposition. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9789-4
Title:Formulation and characterization of lipid-coated tobramycin particles for dry powder inhalation
Authors:G. PilcerT. SebtiK. Amighi
Absract:Purpose. This study was conducted to develop and evaluate the physicochemical and aerodynamic characteristics of lipid-coated dry powder formulations presenting particularly high lung deposition. Methods. Lipid-coated particles were prepared by spray-drying suspensions with different concentrations of tobramycin and lipids. The solid-state properties of the formulations, including particle size and morphology, were assessed by scanning electron microscopy and laser diffraction. Aerosol performance was studied by dispersing the powders into a Multistage Liquid Impinger and determining drug deposition by high-performance liquid chromatography. Results. Particle size distributions of the formulations were unimodal, narrow with more than 90% of the particles having a diameter of less than 2.8 μm. All powder formulations exhibited mass median diameters of less than 1.3 and 3.2 μm, as determined by two different laser diffraction methods, the Malvern's Mastersizer® and Spraytec®, respectively. The fine particle fraction varied within a range of 50.5 and 68.3%. Conclusions. Lipid coating of tobramycin formulations resulted in a reduced agglomeration tendency and in high fine particle fraction values, thus improving drug deposition. The very low excipients content (about 5% m/m) of these formulations offers the benefit of delivering particularly huge concentrations of antibiotic directly to the site of infection, while minimizing systemic exposure, and may provide a valuable alternative treatment of cystic fibrosis. © 2006 Springer Science + Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1089/jam.1997.10.41
Title:The demonstration of bronchodilator effects of salbutamol formulated in chlorofluorocarbon and hydrofluoroalkane-134a metered dose inhalation devices on leukotriene d@sub_begin4@sub_end-induced pulmonary responses in the guinea pig
Authors:D.M. HammerbeckV.L. StelzerM. Nogami-ItohR.L. MillerK. TakeyamaG.W. Gullikson
Absract:The demonstration of bronchodilator effects of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonists delivered by metered dose inhalation (MDI) devices can be useful in the development of new therapies for asthma or assessing the effects of a formulation. MDI formulations of hydrofluoroalkaue (HFA)-134a (a chlorofluorocarbon [CFC]-free propellant), salbutamol in the HFA-134a propellant, CFC-P11/P12 propellant, and salbutamol and formoterol in the CFC propellant were evaluated for their ability to reduce leukotriene D@sub_begin4@sub_end (LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end)-induced bronchoconstriction in guinea pigs using the Konzett-Rossler method. LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end challenges were made at various times up to 6 hours after MDI treatment. Neither the placebo vehicle propellants nor the drug formulations affected basal airflow. Only the salbutamol/CFC, formoterol/CFC, and salbutamol/HFA MDI formulations inhibited LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end-induced bronchoconstriction. One actuation of the MDI device containing salbutamol or formoterol in the CFC propellant produced ~100% inhibition of LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end-induced effects following a 5-minute pretreatment period at doses greater than or equal to 10μg per actuation. A single actuation of salbutamol (100μg per actuation) was required to show significant inhibition 30 minutes after aerosol drug delivery (~50% inhibition) and was inactive 1 hour after drug delivery. Inhibition with formoterol was observed at 30 minutes after aerosol delivery at 25 μg per actuation and for up to 6 hours at 100 μg per actuation. Results of this study indicate that the bronchodilator activity of MDI- delivered β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonists could be demonstrated using either CFC or HFA propellants in a standard preclinical animal model.

pui:24058056
Title:Pulmonary deposition of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelled salbutamol particles in healthy volunteers after inhalation from a metered-dose inhaler and from a novel multiple-dose powder inhaler
Authors:M. VidgrenJ. ArppeP. VidgrenP. VainioM. SilvastiH. Tukiainen
Absract:Due to the hazardous environmental effects of Freon propellants of pressurized aerosols, alternative drug delivery systems for the treatment of bronchial asthma should be established. The novel multiple-dose powder inhaler (Easyhaler®) has been developed to obtain at least similar pulmonary deposition as can be achieved with conventional metered-dose inhalers. The aim of this study was to investigate pulmonary deposition of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelled salbutamol after drug delivery from a metered-dose inhaler and from the Easyhaler® powder device. The open, non-randomized cross-over gamma camera study showed that on average 26.2% of the aerosol dose and 28.9% of the powder dose deposited in the lung area. Thus both the formulation of the powder mixture and the construction of the powder inhaler facilitated similar pulmonary drug delivery as could be achieved with a conventional metered-dose inhaler.

pui:36665586
Title:Still no tangible impact on influenza
Authors:M. VidgrenJ. ArppeP. VidgrenP. VainioM. SilvastiH. Tukiainen
Absract:• The reference treatment for suspected influenza during outbreaks is simple relief of symptoms (fever, rhinitis, headache, myalgia, etc.). • According to a comparative placebo-controlled trial involving 525 patients with asthma and/or chronic obstructive airways disease, and a meta-analysis of 9 trials involving patients at risk of complications, zanamivir shortens the duration of symptoms of suspected influenza by about a day. But zanamivir has not been shown to reduce antibiotic prescribing, or the incidence of complications necessitating hospitalisation. • Zanamivir has no proven efficacy in preventing the spread of influenza by a treated patient. • Zanamivir inhalation can induce bronchospasm. • In practice, prevention through vaccination remains the mainstay of management. Symptomatic relief is the only rational therapy for influenza.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119932
Title:(Solvato-) polymorphism of formulations of rifampicin for pulmonary drug delivery prepared using a crystallization/spray drying process
Authors:K. BerkenfeldJ.T. McConvilleA. Lamprecht
Absract:Rifampicin is an antibiotic used in tuberculosis therapy showing extensive (solvato-) polymorphism. Per oral administration of high doses is recommended, but application as dry powder for inhalation at the site of infection being the lungs, is desirable. Recrystallization from ethanol and consecutive spray drying is reported to yield a rifampicin dihydrate with suitable aerosol performance and stability. Nevertheless, the origin of water in the crystal remained unclear and demanded further investigation so to clarify its solid state throughout manufacture and storage. The present study reports the relationship of (solvato-) polymorphs occurring during manufacture and storage of samples recrystallized and spray dried from ethanol, methanol and water and it was concluded that processes involving a recrystallization from EtOH and MeOH produce particles of a common isostructural group of channel solvates. Samples recrystallized and spray dried from water were identified as members of another isostructural group, which was already characterized in literature. As a second aim, aerosol performance and storage stability of the formulations were investigated and all samples showed stable aerosol performance. Chemical stability of samples spray dried from ethanol was found suitable over a period of six months, whereas samples spray dried from methanol or water showed significant degradation.

doi:10.1080/03639040802235902
Title:Advancements in dry powder delivery to the lung
Authors:Y.-J. SonJ.T. McConville
Absract:The dry powder inhaler (DPI) has become widely known as a very attractive platform for drug delivery. Many patients have traditionally used DPIs to treat asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Recently, the development of new DPIs for delivering therapeutic proteins such as insulin has been accelerated by patient demands, and innovative research. The current market for DPIs has over 20 devices presently in use, and many devices under development for delivering a variety of therapeutic agents. DPIs are recognized as suitable alternatives to pressurized metered dose inhalers for some patients, but the performance of DPI devices may vary according to a given patient's physiological condition. This variation can be associated with the necessary powder dispersion mechanism of each device. As such, much interest has focused on the development of efficient powder dispersion mechanisms, as this effectively minimizes the influence of interpatient variability. This article reviews DPI devices currently available, advantages of newly developed devices, outlines some requirements for future device design. Copyright © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2007.10.007
Title:Novel propellant-driven inhalation formulations: Engineering polar drug particles with surface-trapped hydrofluoroalkane-philes
Authors:L. WuM. Al-HaydariS.R.P. da Rocha
Absract:Challenges in reformulating pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) with hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellants, and the potential of inhalation formulations for the delivery of drugs to and through the lungs have encouraged the development of novel suspension-based pMDI formulations. In this work we propose a new methodology for engineering polar drug particles with enhanced stability and aerosol characteristics in propellant HFAs. The approach consists in 'trapping' HFA-philic moieties at the surface of particles, which are formed using a modified emulsification-diffusion method. The trapped moieties act as stabilizing agents, thus preventing flocculation of the otherwise unstable colloidal drug particles. This approach has advantages compared to surfactant-stabilized colloids in that no free stabilizers remain in solution (reduced toxicity), and the challenges associated with the synthesis of well-balanced amphiphiles are circumvented. The methodology was tested by trapping polyethylene glycol (PEG) at the surface of particles of a model polar drug-salbutamol sulfate. Colloidal probe microscopy is used to quantitatively demonstrate the trapping of the HFA-phile at the surface, and the ability of PEG in screening particle-particle cohesive interactions. Both physical stability and the corresponding aerosol characteristics are significantly improved compared to those of a commercial formulation. The fine particle fraction of PEG-coated salbutamol sulfate was observed to be 42% higher than that of Ventolin HFA@sup_begin®@sup_end. The formation of stable dispersions of terbutaline hemisulfate using the same approach, suggests this to be a generally applicable methodology to polar drugs. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(95)04233-4
Title:Jet nebulisers for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:O.N.M. McCallionK.M.G. TaylorP.A. BridgesM. ThomasA.J. Taylor
Absract:Nebulisers are widely used clinically to produce aerosols for a range of applications. This paper reviews the many factors which determine the particle size of the aerosol and drug output and describes their potential usefulness for novel drug delivery. There are numerous commercially available nebulisers, and their design is an important factor governing aerosol size and fluid output. Recent designs have included developments to reduce the proportion of drug lost during exhalation with traditional continuous output nebulisers. The rate of gas flow driving atomization is a major determinant of aerosol size; there being an inverse relationship between droplet size and flow rate, due to the increased shearing forces at higher flow rates. Although droplet size is largely independent of fill volume, the proportion of available drug increases with increased fill volumes, since some fluid is invariably retained within the nebulisation chamber at the end of atomization. During use the temperature of the fluid within the nebuliser significantly decreases. This may result in precipitation of poorly soluble drugs and produce variability in droplet size due to changes in the physicochemical properties of nebuliser fluids. Mean aerosol size is inversely proportional to viscosity. However, although high viscosity fluids produce small droplets, they require longer to nebulise to dryness and are retained to a greater extent. Reducing the surface tension of fluids tends to produce aerosols of smaller size. Thus, the size and dose of aerosol available for inhalation by a patient is a complex function of all these factors, whilst the dose inhaled and deposited in the airways is highly dependent on patient-related factors.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:In-vitro study of inhaled iloprost delivery using a modified deepro mesh nebulizer with breath-actuated function
Authors:E.H. Cuevas BrunC.-T. WangJ.S. ChenY.-M. HsuY.-Y. ChenH.-A. TsaiK.-T. Chen
Absract:Introduction: Pulmonary hypertension is a life-threatening disease characterized for the narrowing, blockage and destruction of blood vessels in the lungs. Inhaled iloprost has long been used to treat patients suffering from this condition. In order to ensure an effective treatment, breath-actuated mesh nebulizers are considered as one of the most efficient delivering devices. Objective: A non-commercial modified Deepro mesh nebulizer with newly developed breath-actuated function was used to nebulize iloprost and demonstrate its in-vitro delivery effectiveness, which adds an alternative for delivering this formulation. Methods: Iloprost (Ventavis®, Bayer) inhalation solution, 20 μg/2mL, was tested. Particle size distribution parameters were analysed using a laser diffraction system(Spraytec,Malvern), obtaining volume median diameter (DV50), fine particle fraction (FPF), and geometric standard deviation (GSD). Delivered dose was collected using a breathing simulator (BRS2100, Copley Scientific) and analysed with HPLC. The nebulization time was also computed according to the breathing simulation. Results: Filled volumes were adjusted to deliver doses of 2.5 and 5.0 μg at the mouthpiece. The mean values of triplicates for DV50, FPF, and GSD were 4.2 μm, 60%, and 1.74, respectively. The nebulization time to deliver 2.5 μg was 4.5 mins, while 5 μg was delivered in 5 mins. Conclusion: The modified Deepro, equipped with a new pressure sensor for breath actuation, successfully nebulized iloprost within reasonable time to improve patient adherence. Particle size distribution characteristics were aligned with the requirements for proper lung deposition. This new technology could also be used to effectively deliver other types of formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2016.08.010
Title:Application of combinational supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end techniques to the preparation of inhalable particles
Authors:Y. MiyazakiH. SugiharaA. NishiuraK. KadotaY. TozukaH. Takeuchi
Absract:This study describes a supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end (scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end) system, which combines supercritical antisolvent (SAS) and rapid expansion from supercritical to aqueous solution (RESAS) processes, enabling the preparation of a poorly water-soluble drug (ONO-2921) as a dry powder for inhalable formulations. The SAS unit disperses the drug solution in scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end and the RESAS unit sprays the drug dispersion into water. Dispersing the ethanolic drug solution into a vessel purged with scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end practically eliminated crystallization of ONO-2921 when the CO@sub_begin2@sub_end pressure was more than 15 MPa at 40 °C. In contrast, a suspension containing submicron-sized particles was obtained when the scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end-drug mixture was sprayed into water using a RESAS device. Suspensions were freeze-dried to create powdered samples for determining in vitro inhalation properties. Freeze-dried particles processed with 25 MPa of CO@sub_begin2@sub_end at 40 °C showed 24-fold greater deposition in the stage 2 fraction of the twin impinger than raw ONO-2921. The fine particle fraction value (aerodynamic diameter <4.7 μm) of its processed sample was 48.7% ± 0.6%. As this scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end approach does not require additives or excipients to prepare the particles, the pulmonary delivery of large amounts of ONO-2921 as an inhalable dry powder represents an attractive drug delivery system.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_12
Title:Polymers for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:P. ShethP.B. Myrdal
Absract:One method by which to modify the release rate of a drug in the pulmonary tract, is through the use of polymeric systems. There are several natural and synthetic polymers that have been studied in vitro or in vivo in animals to assess pulmonary drug delivery and sustained release. This chapter focuses on some of the more common non-conjugated polymers utilized for inhalation drug delivery and draws examples from an array of pre-clinical findings. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1024/0040-5930.63.6.363
Title:Drug administration errors - What information is required to enable patients to safely take their drugs?
Authors:W.E. Haefeli
Absract:More than 100 different routes of drug administration are known for which highly specialised galenic formulations and sophisticated containers and application devices have been developed. Consequently substantial knowledge is required to use them in a proper and most successful way. The trend of moving the responsibility for drug application to patient s and care givers necessitates their appropriate and comprehensive information to enable them to administer medication safely, skilfully, and correctly. This also includes practical skills for instance to open blisters and containers, to split tablets when needed, and to inhale, inject, or ingest the drugs. This article compiles the areas of information which should be covered, communicated, and checked by the prescribing physician and the dispensing pharmacist to maximise the patients' odds for a successful therapy. © 2006 by Verlag Hans Huber, Hogrefe AG.

pui:9065561
Title:Regional deposition of inhaled @sup_begin137@sup_endCs-labeled monodisperse and polydisperse aluminosilicate aerosols in Syrian hamsters
Authors:R.L. ThomasO.G. Raabe
Absract:Two groups of eighty Syrian hamsters were exposed to aerosols of @sup_begin137@sup_endCs-labeled fused aluminosilicate particles. One group was exposed to a monodisperse aerosol with AMAD (activity median aerodynamic diameter) of 1.53 μm and σg(geometric standard deviation) of 1.15. The other group was exposed to a polydisperse aerosol with AMAD of 1.87 μm and σg of 1.46. After exposure, the hamsters were killed and carefully dissected and tissues were assayed for @sup_begin137@sup_endCs to determine regional deposition of the inhaled aerosols. The relative lung deposition was similar for the two groups and was estimated as 9.5% of the inhaled aerosols. The right apical lobe consistently contained more activity and the right cardiac and right diaphragmatic lobes less activity on a per gram lung weight basis than the total lung.

pui:27306456
Title:Final report on the safety assessment Formic Acid
Authors:B. NairF.A. Andersen
Absract:Formic Acid is a simple organic acid used as a pH adjustor in cosmetic products. It is a common metabolic intermediate that can be oxidized to carbon dioxide. The available data suggest that Formic Acid is an ocular and skin irritant and can be especially irritating to lung tissue. Both positive and negative results were noted in various mutagenicity studies (acidic experimental conditions were indicated in most cases of positive mutagenicity). In cosmetic formulations, Formic Acid is expected to be used at low concentrations and neutralized into various formate salts. Thus, the free Formic Acid level is expected to be very low. Using data from an inhalation toxicity study in which 64 ppm was found to be nonirritating, it was extrapolated that such a level of free Formic Acid in a cosmetic formulation should not produce adverse effects. Accordingly, it was concluded that Formic Acid is safe for use in cosmetics as a pH adjustor with a limit of 64 ppm for the free acid.

pui:25298211
Title:Lung deposition of salbutamol from the Leiras metered dose powder inhaler
Authors:G.R. PitcairnT. LankinenE. ValkilaS.P. Newman
Absract:The deposition patterns of salbutamol inhaled from a new metered dose dry powder inhaler (Leiras Oy, Finland) were assessed using gamma scintigraphy. The drug formulation was labelled with the radionuclide @sup_begin99@sup_endTc@sup_beginm@sup_end, and in vitro validation experiments performed with an Andersen Cascade Impactor demonstrated that the radiolabel would act as a marker of in vivo drug distribution. Eleven healthy volunteers took part in the study, inhaling through the device at a mean (SEM) flow rate of 31.2 (3.6) L · min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The mean (SEM) whole lung deposition was 41.6 (1.7) % of the delivered dose, and 23.9 (1.4) % of the metered dose. The drug was distributed fairly evenly throughout the lungs with a mean ratio of peripheral/central deposition of 1.2. It was concluded that drug delivery from the Leiras dry powder inhaler was comparable or superior to that observed for other metered dose powder inhalers.

pui:14075471
Title:Double-blind crossover study on the protective effect of fenoterol - administered by pressurized aerosol and in powder form - in allergen-induced asthma
Authors:G. D'AmatoM. SchianoG. CoccoG. Melillo
Absract:The purpose of this study was to determine the level of protection afforded by fenoterol (200 μg), administered by pressurized aerosol, in allergen-induced bronchospasm and to compare its effect with that of the same drug administered at the same dosage in powder form. It was a double-blind crossover study on 14 patients with atopic asthma. The administration of the drug took place at weekly intervals according to an appropriate randomized schedule. The sensitizing allergen was inhaled 30 min after the administration of the drug. Parameters of the respiratory function was controlled at fixed intervals over a 2-hour period. The study showed that both fenoterol formulations possess a protective effect in allergen-induced bronchospasm. No statistically difference between the two types of drug preparation (pressurized aerosol and powder form) was observed regarding the individual measuring times. In an overall evaluation, statistically significant differences between dry powder and pressurized aerosol have been observed.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2021.1832989
Title:Targeted drug therapy in nonsmall cell lung cancer: clinical significance and possible solutions-part II (role of nanocarriers)
Authors:K.S. YadavA. UpadhyaA. Misra
Absract:Introduction: Nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for 80–85% of the cases of lung cancer. The conventional therapeutic effective dosage forms used to treat NSCLC are associated with rigid administration schedules, adverse effects, and may be associated with acquired resistance to therapy. Nanocarriers may provide a suitable alternative to regular formulations to overcome inherent drawbacks and provide better treatment modalities for the patient. Areas covered: The article explores the application of drug loaded nanocarriers for lung cancer treatment. Drug-loaded nanocarriers can be modified to achieve controlled delivery at the desired tumor infested site. The type of nanocarriers employed are diverse based on polymers, liposomes, metals and a combination of two or more different base materials (hybrids). These may be designed for systemic delivery or local delivery to the lung compartment (via inhalation). Expert opinion: Nanocarriers can improve pharmacokinetics of the drug payload by improving its delivery to the desired location and can reduce associated systemic toxicities. Through nanocarriers, a wide variety of therapeutics can be administered and targeted to the cancerous site. Some examples of the utilities of nanocarriers are codelivery of drugs, gene delivery, and delivery of other biologics. Overall, the nanocarriers have promising potential in improving therapeutic efficacy of drugs used in NSCLC.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2018.08.050
Title:Micron-size lactose manufactured under high shear and its dispersion efficiency as carrier for Salbutamol Sulphate
Authors:J. LiX.-A. ZengC.S. BrennanX.-D. Chen
Absract:Micron-dimension lactose crystals were produced through ‘one step’ crystallization under high shear (HS) (1.15 × 10@sup_begin2@sup_end2.30 × 10@sup_begin2@sup_end Pa) and followed by centrifuging, freeze-drying and sieving in Lab. The morphology of samples were determined by using particle sizing, X-ray diffraction (XRD) and scanning electron micrograph (SEM). The dispersion efficiencies of these lactose particles, as the carriers for delivering Salbutamol Sulphate (SS), were tested and compared with the commercially available fine lactose (Sorbolac 400). The in-vitro aerosol deposition of the SS powder formulations delivered from a Rotahaler® was determined by a twin-stage impinger (TSI). The results indicated that the lactose crystals prepared in the current study performed comparably better than the commercial sample in terms of SS dispersion efficiency. Such results indicate that this technique of crystallization under high shear is a promising method to manufacture fine lactose crystals as carrier for dry powder inhalation aerosols (DPIs).

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.11.039
Title:Fabrication of liposomal doxorubicin exhibiting ultrasensitivity against phospholipase A@sub_begin2@sub_end for efficient pulmonary drug delivery to lung cancers
Authors:T. TagamiY. AndoT. Ozeki
Absract:Phospholipase A@sub_begin2@sub_end (PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end) is expressed in inflammation-related tissue, including cancer tumors. We report that a hybrid liposome composed of phospholipid (DPPC) and PEGylated block-copolymer (Poloxamer 188) can rapidly release an encapsulated hydrophilic drug in the presence of PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end. DPPC/P188 liposomes released approximately 80% of the encapsulated calcein (a fluorescence marker) within 10 min in the presence of 120 mU of PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end at 37 °C in vitro, whereas several other liposomal compositions used for inhalation therapy did not. DPPC/P188 liposomes were stable in the absence of PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end at 37 °C after 60 min incubation and drug release by PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end was dependent on the amount of P188 incorporated into the DPPC liposomes. Drug release from doxorubicin (DOX, anticancer drug)-loaded DPPC/P188 liposomes was facilitated at higher PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end concentrations and was dependent on the temperature and the presence of calcium ion, thus partially explaining PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end-responsive drug release. DOX release from liposomes triggered by PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end exhibited the same cytotoxic effects on the A549 lung cancer cell line as did DOX in free solution. These findings suggest that DPPC/P188 liposomes are a promising drug carrier for delivering drug efficiently at PLA@sub_begin2@sub_end-expressing sites such as inflammatory lung cancer.

pui:2012863323
Title:In vivo deposition and inhalation toxicity of cefdinir loaded functionalized carbon nanotubes as novel approach of formulation of respirable particle.
Authors:K.D. DhekaleR.N. Kamble
Absract:A dry-powder inhaler (DPI) is a device that delivers medication to the lungs in the form of a dry powder which are commonly used to treat respiratory diseases. Present work was attempted to investigate the potentialities of Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) as a pulmonary carrier for targeting Cefdinir tolung infection. Functionalization of MWCNTs by reported method and loaded with Cefdinir using the Incipient Wetness impregnation method to formulate Cefdinir loaded respirable particle(CLRP) which has efficient treatment against lung infections.This is evaluated by particle size, flow properties in vitro release kinetics, in vivo deposition study, acute inhalation toxicity study and Ex-vivo antimicrobial study. The results indicated that CLRP are nontoxic and 95% entrapment with better flow properties was achieved. The optimized formulation had particle size is6.482±0.09 μm. The release pattern of CLRP was shown to release in a controlled manner for 24 hours (i.e. after 24 hours it was 88 %). In vivo lung deposition study showed that maximum amount of drug is present in lung. Formulated respirable particle show better antimicrobial activity against gram (+ve) andgram (-ve). This work established a novel, easy to prepare with better drug loading efficiency.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2011.04.014
Title:The 'stage-by-stage' deposition of drugs from commercial single-active and combination dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:M. TakiS. AhmedC. MarriottX.-M. ZengG.P. Martin
Absract:Inhalation of salmeterol xinafoate (SX) and fluticasone propionate (FP) from a combination product is reported to produce superior clinical outcomes in comparison to the concurrent administration of 'similar' doses via separate single-active inhalers. For bioequivalence determination across different products, emphasis is currently placed on the assessment of drug deposition within inertial impactors on a 'stage-by-stage' basis as stipulated in a recent European Medicines Agency guidance. The aim of this study was to compare the stage-by-stage deposition of drugs aerosolised from the single-active Accuhaler® products Serevent® (SX) and Flixotide® (FP) with the SX-FP combination product Seretide® Accuhaler® in vitro. Drug deposition on a stage-by-stage basis was assessed using the next generation impactor (NGI). Significant differences in drug deposition profiles were obtained following aerosolisation from the single-active versus combination products. The concurrent administration of the two single-active products: Serevent® and Flixotide® Accuhaler® may not be bioequivalent to inhalation of the combination product Seretide® Accuhaler®. The observed differences may have resulted from different characteristics of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (APIs) and the carrier alpha-lactose monohydrate between the single-active and combination inhalers and/or a change in the drug-carrier inter-particulate interaction as a consequence of the presence of a second active. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.tube.2010.12.001
Title:Cellular targeting and trafficking of drug delivery systems for the prevention and treatment of MTb
Authors:C. LawlorC. KellyS. O'LearyM.P. O'SullivanP.J. GallagherJ. KeaneS.A. Cryan
Absract:Targeted delivery of anti-tubercular therapeutics to alveolar macrophages via inhalation aims to achieve optimal concentration of the therapeutic in the mycobacteria's niche environment. However, several challenges need to be overcome when designing a system to achieve this targeted, intracellular delivery. The first objective is to design a system that is suitable for inhalation, i.e. it must be capable of deposition in the alveolar region of the lungs. The theme of this commentary will be on the biological barriers for intracellular targeting to alveolar macrophages once particles are deposited in the lungs with emphasis on the delivery of anti-tubercular therapy and implications for novel vaccine formulations. The commentary focuses on four key features: 1) How Mycobacterium tuberculosis enters and is trafficked through macrophages, 2) the mechanism by which current drug delivery systems (DDS) enter and are trafficked through cells and 3) How an ideal DDS for anti-tubercular therapy would be trafficked through the macrophage and 4) the potential for using DDS for novel anti-tubercular therapy and vaccine development. These four features of targeted DDS shall be discussed in relation to some new findings from our own research. © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2010.02.018
Title:Optimized pulmonary gene transfection in mice by spray-freeze dried powder inhalation
Authors:K. MohriT. OkudaA. MoriK. DanjoH. Okamoto
Absract:Spray-freeze drying (SFD) is an attractive technique to prepare highly porous dry powders for inhalation. However, there have been few reports of its application to dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Therefore, in this study, we prepared dry plasmid DNA (pDNA) powders with different molecular ratios of chitosan to pDNA (N/P ratios) by SFD. All the pDNA powders were spherical and highly porous, with particles approximately 20-40 μm in geometric diameter. The morphology changed little with the alteration of the N/P ratio. On electrophoresis, a band of linear pDNA was detected in the preparation without chitosan, suggesting the destabilization of pDNA through SFD. However, the addition of chitosan protected pDNA from destabilization. Moreover, the pDNA powders were evaluated for pulmonary gene transfection efficiency using an in vivo dual imaging technique for gene DPIs developed previously. Maximum gene expression was observed at 9-12. h following pulmonary administration of the powders into mice. The powder with the N/P ratio of 10 had the highest gene transfection efficiency. A higher affinity of chitosan for pDNA and a smaller (approximately 100. nm) pDNA/chitosan complex (N/P. f. 10) were found at pH 6.5 (in lung) than at pH 7.4 (in physiological conditions), suggesting that the effective compaction of pDNA by chitosan at the N/P ratio of 10 at pH 6.5 contributes to the gene transfection efficiency in the lung. These results suggest inhalable dry pDNA powders with chitosan prepared by SFD to be a suitable formulation for pulmonary gene therapy. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2.4.625
Title:Novel hydrofluoroalkane suspension formulations for respiratory drug delivery
Authors:P. Rogueda
Absract:Due to the poor solvent properties of hydrofluoroalkanes, suspension is often the only formulation option for respiratory drug delivery. Research in this area has focussed mainly on two main themes over the past 5 years: new design of stabilisers and particle engineering. Among the most important advances, the introduction of secondary particulate systems and the establishment of porous particles as a viable delivery system must be mentioned. Other noteworthy developments include new classes of stabilisers and surface tailoring approaches. Work has been underpinned by new theoretical insights, via the introduction of atomic force microscopy to measure particle interactions, and the development of the surface tension component approach to predict them. Future areas of development include the formulation of nanoparticles and of non-inhalation therapies in non-pressurised hydrofluoroalkanes. All these aspects are reviewed in this article. © 2005 Ashley Publications Ltd.

pui:44489072
Title:Carriers for DPIs: Formulation and regulatory challenges
Authors:J.S. KaergerR. PriceP.M. YoungS. EdgeM.J. Tobyn
Absract:Lactose, in particular alpha-lactose monohydrate, is typically used as 'the' carrier in dry powder inhalers. Even though these often tailored materials allow the delivery of medicines to the body in doses that are much lower than by 'conventional' solid dosage forms, the use of this excipient in this application is posing characterization and regulatory challenges to both suppliers and users.

doi:10.1016/j.drudis.2021.04.009
Title:Leucine as an excipient in spray dried powder for inhalation
Authors:N. AlhajjN.J. O'ReillyH. Cathcart
Absract:Leucine is a promising excipient with several applications in the development of inhalable spray-dried powder of high- and low-dose drugs. The addition of leucine has exhibited significant enhancing effects on the aerosolization and physical stability of the produced particles. Here, we focus not only on the applications of leucine in inhalable spray-drying powders, but also on the underlying mechanisms by which the formulation and processing parameters dictate the behavior of leucine during the drying process and, therefore, its functionalities within the dried powder. Additionally, we highlight the current regulatory status of leucine. Such insights are important for more efficient utilization of leucine in the future, both for dry powder inhaler formulations and other pharmaceutical applications.

pui:30243234
Title:Management of pain during delivery
Authors:F.J. Molina
Absract:The aim of this work was to conduct a historical review of the management of pain at the time of delivery since the discovery of the hypnotic and analgesic properties of chloroform. After some brief considerations regarding the mechanism involved in the birth of a new human being, the relevance and limitations of the psychological preparation of the parturient are stressed. Regarding the procedures used by anesthesiologists in order to provide painfulness deliveries, the mechanism of action of the three groups of chemicals used for this end are described: volatile analgesics, local analgesics and analgesics administered through the systemic route, as well as the techniques used for their administration. Experiences with electricity applied transcutaneously are also mentioned. Finally, the need to promote a level of excellence in the medical care is stressed, so that chemical advances may provide an effective management of pain during delivery 24 hours per day. (C) 1999 Sociedad Espanola del Dolor.

doi:10.1016/j.jaci.2017.05.038
Title:Blocking Bcl-2 resolves IL-13–mediated mucous cell hyperplasia in a Bik-dependent manner
Authors:H.S. ChandY.A. MebratuP.J. KuehlY. Tesfaigzi
Absract:The aim of this work was to conduct a historical review of the management of pain at the time of delivery since the discovery of the hypnotic and analgesic properties of chloroform. After some brief considerations regarding the mechanism involved in the birth of a new human being, the relevance and limitations of the psychological preparation of the parturient are stressed. Regarding the procedures used by anesthesiologists in order to provide painfulness deliveries, the mechanism of action of the three groups of chemicals used for this end are described: volatile analgesics, local analgesics and analgesics administered through the systemic route, as well as the techniques used for their administration. Experiences with electricity applied transcutaneously are also mentioned. Finally, the need to promote a level of excellence in the medical care is stressed, so that chemical advances may provide an effective management of pain during delivery 24 hours per day. (C) 1999 Sociedad Espanola del Dolor.

pui:28302867
Title:Inhaler therapy in adult patients with asthma and COPD: Dry powder or aerosol?
Authors:P.N.R. Dekhuijzen
Absract:When prescribing inhalation medication in the ambulant treatment of patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), a choice can be made between dry powder inhaler (DPI) and pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDI). The degree of deposition in the lower airways depends on the dose delivery via the inhaler and the mean diameter of the released particles (MMAD). With a DPI, dose delivery and MMAD depend on the inspiratory flow rate. With a pMDI dose delivery and MMAD do not depend on the inspiratory flow rate but on hand-mouth co-ordination. The main determinants for the choice of a DPI or a pMDI are the degree of co-operation and co-ordination, and the inspiratory flow rate of the patient.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(89)90109-9
Title:Development of a new coated-bead dosage form of sodium iodide I-131
Authors:R. DansereauR. Dansereau
Absract:Sodium iodide I-131 is a commonly used radiopharmaceutical agent in the diagnosis and treatment of various thyroid conditions. The USP recognizes an aqueous solution and a capsule dosage form of sodium iodide I-131. The sodium iodide I-131 solution presents significant radiation hazards associated with spills and inhalation of volatile components. The capsule dosage form restricts the dosing flexibility and often requires that the patient take several capsules. This paper describes the development of a stabilized solid dosage form of sodium iodide I-131. The non-radioactive species was used in this study because it possesses the physical and chemical properties of the radioactive compound, but without radiation hazards. The sodium iodide was dissolved in a polymeric film and applied to nonpareil beads by conventional fluid-bed technology. The film coating protected the sodium iodide from degradation by environmental factors. The bead dosage form offers the physician and pharmacist infinite dosing flexibility because the specified dose can be filled into a single hard-gelatin capsule before dispensing. This dosage form also minimizes the hazerds associated with spillage and overcomes the volatility problem associated with the solution dosage form.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab02.abstracts
Title:Aerosol performance of the Pulmospray® soft-mist inhaler for inhalation of high amounts of liquid formulations
Authors:B. MuellingerJ. BartholomewW. De Kruij
Absract:Liquid formulations are popular for drug delivery in inhalation products. Many compounds are available as liquid formulation and delivery devices as soft-mist-inhalers (SMI) or smart nebulizers have been employed to improve the delivery efficiency and usability. However, SMI are limited to small dosages and nebulizers require electricity, which is often not in-line with the target treatment setting, were single use or energy independent on-the-go devices are required (e.g. COVID-19, rescue). In this study, we assessed the aerosol performance of the mechanical and disposable Pulmospray inhaler, that is designed for application of a liquid volume of up to 1mL. To assess the aerosol characteristics, cascade impaction testing (NGI) was performed (3 repetitions, 1mL of 5.85% NaCl). Four device variants with different nozzle pore sizes were tested. The content sampled on impactor stages and the UIP was assessed by Conductivity. Mass Median Aerodynamic Diameter (MMAD) and the Geometric Standard Deviation (GSD) were calculated. The delivery rate was assessed by using a spray time of 10 sec per actuation. With pore sizes of 1.6, 1.7, 1.8 and 1.9 μm, MMAD was 5.12, 5.73, 5.90 and 6.70 μm, and GSD was 1.46, 1.49. 1.48, 1.56, respectively. The drug flow rate during actuation was 7.26, 8.17, 8.60, 11.25 μL/sec for the different pore sizes, respectively, which corresponds to an administration time for 1mL between 1.5 to 2.3min. Results from this study indicate that the Pulmospray allows a fast administration of 1mL within ∼2min. The combined results from narrow size distribution (GSD), the MMAD results (smaller pore size) and the built-in flow limitation of the device allows efficient delivery to the lungs as indicated by other publications.

doi:10.1136/oemed-2018-ICOHabstracts.1337
Title:Nano pesticides entering the market: New risks from ancient chemicals? the role of the skin route
Authors:F.L. Filon
Absract:Introduction In recent years, nano-based pesticides formulation are developing with the aim to obtain a product that can release the active ingredients only in contact with the target, prolong the effective duration and reduce the dispersion of chemicals in the environment. Big efforts are spend to develop products that can enter in the market, but concern is rising about safety measures to adopt during usage. United States Environmental Protection Agency and European Commission are enacted rules on the management and usage of nano pesticides. Nano formulations can be more active on pests because of the enhancement of penetration, but for the same reason they can penetrate easily into human body mainly through skin route. Methods a web base survey on pesticides in nano-form tested was done, reviewing scientific literature, technical data and patents on new pesticides formulations with the aim to find information about safety profile comparison between traditional and nano-form. Results literature is focusing mainly on advantages of nano pesticides in term of reduction of active ingredient to be used in association with less use of chemical agents to disperse it. Very few are data on comparative toxicity on cells line between nano and traditional formulations, showing mainly a lower toxicity for the first one. No animal or human data are available in literature in our best knowledge that compares toxicity between nano and traditional formulation. Due to high surface/mass ratio nano formulations can be more active on the target but for the same reason can enter quickly into human body via skin contact and inhalation route. Discussions nano pesticides can offer many advantages from the theoretical point of view but their use need to be evaluated considering the higher permeation into human body that they can have, mainly through the skin route.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.10.009
Title:Clinical applications of pulmonary delivery of antibiotics
Authors:P.A. FlumeD.R. VanDevanter
Absract:The treatment of infection typically involves administration of antibiotics by a systemic route, such as intravenous or oral. However, pulmonary infections can also be approached by inhalation of antibiotics as the infection is more directly accessible via the airways, making inhalation delivery essentially topical administration. This approach offers deposition of high antimicrobial concentrations directly at the site of infection but with a potentially reduced systemic exposure. This review covers the evidence for aerosolized antibiotics for the treatment of a number of conditions such as cystic fibrosis (CF), where it has become the standard of care for chronic infection, as well as non-CF bronchiectasis, non-tuberculous mycobacteria, and ventilator-associated infection where such therapy does not have an approved indication but has been used with increasing frequency.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2009.05.011
Title:Confocal Raman microscopy to probe content uniformity of a lipid based powder for inhalation: A quality by design approach
Authors:C. SchoenherrT. HaefeleK. PaulusG. Francese
Absract:In the present work confocal Raman microscopy was employed as a non-destructive tool to define the content uniformity and the polymorphic form of a drug substance distributed within a lipid based inhalable powder. Two spray dried powders with different active ingredient concentrations (1.55 and 7.3 wt/wt%) and an additional placebo formulation were analyzed with confocal Raman microscopy and scanning electron microscopy to define the distribution of active substance within the lipid based particles as well as its polymorphic form. The formulation containing less drug substance was shown to have a high degree of content uniformity: a complete colocalization of the Raman signal for the lipids and the Raman signal for the drug substance was detected, implying that the active ingredient was homogenously distributed within the lipid particles. Within the higher concentrated preparation, in addition to the colocalized active ingredient, Raman signals of crystalline drug substance could be observed which were not matching with the location of the consistent lipid signal. Those observations gave evidence that a part of the active substance in this formulation was not molecularly dispersed within the powder. It could be shown that confocal Raman microscopy may be used as a fast and convenient method to define the content uniformity of an active ingredient within a lipid based spray dried powder for inhalation. Using this technique the distribution of an active ingredient can be characterized non-destructively, aiding in the understanding of complex drug delivery systems e.g. in the field of inhalable pharmaceutical powders. In addition analysis of solid state is available with confocal Raman microscopy. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1067/mai.2000.111582
Title:Efficacy and safety overview of a new inhaled corticosteroid, QVAR (hydrofluoroalkane-beclomethasone extrafine inhalation aerosol), in asthma
Authors:W.W. BusseR.J. MartinS.J. Szefler
Absract:Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-containing inhalers are gradually being phased out and replaced with hydrofluoroalkane (HFA)-based alternatives. The reformulation provided the opportunity to improve the inhalation technology and physical characteristics of corticosteroid formulations. QVAR contains HFA-beclomethasone dipropionate (HFA-BDP) with the steroid in solution rather than suspension, which, in combination with improved inhaler technology, produces an extrafine aerosol with a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 1.1 μm (smaller than the 3.5-4.0 μm found with CFC-BDP). It was predicted and demonstrated that the smaller particle size of QVAR would be deposited in the lung to a greater extent than that found with CFC-BDP, particularly in the small airway, a major site of inflammation. Increased lung deposition of QVAR permits a reduction in dosage relative to CFC-BDP. Clinical evidence confirms that adult and elderly patients required approximately half the dose of QVAR to achieve the same degree of asthma control as with CFC-BDP. In long-term assessments, patients taking CFC-BDP could be switched to QVAR at half the daily dose without exacerbation of their asthma symptoms. QVAR was associated with a low overall incidence of side effects and, at the maximum recommended dose of 640 μg/d, caused no more adrenal suppression than 672 μg/d CFC-BDP.

pui:355844567
Title:Microneedle: A effective and safe tool for drug delivery
Authors:P. ShivanandP. BinalR. MahalaxmiD. ViralN.P. Jivani
Absract:Microneedle-based vaccination with the current anthrax vaccine produced an equally effective immune response to intramuscular injection in rabbits using smaller dosage say researcher from Maryland and North Carolina. In the study researchers compared the efficacy of immunizing rabbits with the current anthrax vaccine intradermally using a microneedle and intramuscularly using a conventional needle. Results showed that intradermal delivery required less dosage to induce similar antibody levels as those seen following intramuscular injection. Rabbits that were administered the vaccine using the microneedle-based technique showed protection against inhalation anthrax at 100%, while those vaccinated using conventional methods were protected at 71%.

pui:47204249
Title:Basics of compounding: The responsibilities of compounding personnel in implementing United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding - Sterile Preparations, part 2
Authors:L.V. Allen Jr.C.C. Okeke
Absract:United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding - Sterile Preparations pertains to all preadministration manipulations and procedures involved in preparation of sterile compounds for application, implantation, infusion, inhalation, injection, insertion, instillation, or irrigation, including preparation, storage, and transportation. The chapter does not pertain to actual clinical administration of compounded sterile preparations to patients. The intent of Chapter 〈797〉 is simply to prevent patient harm and fatalities that may result from nonsterility, excessive endotoxin load, large content errors in strength of correct ingredients, or the presence of incorrect ingredients. Because the achievement of sterility requires that facilities meet minimum cleanliness standards, that personnel be trained adequately and undergo periodic testing and training in sterilization techniques, and that appropriate principles and practices be applied to sustain solution stability, compliance to Chapter 〈797〉 should be the goal of any facility where sterile preparations are compounded. Many pharmacies have already become compliant with Chapter 〈797〉, and those that have already met the new standards seem to support them strongly.

doi:10.1212/wnl.46.6_suppl_1.20s
Title:Emergency treatment of status epilepticus
Authors:J.W. RungeF.H. Allen
Absract:Status epilepticus occurs in more than 50,000 people in the United States each year and should be considered a neurologic emergency. A variety of drugs are used to treat status epilepticus, including IV benzodiazepines, phenytoin, and barbiturates. They are all short of being ideal, primarily because of difficulties with administration or associated toxicity. Fosphenytoin, a prodrug and phosphate ester of phenytoin, was developed to overcome the drawbacks associated with IV phenytoin. With its efficacy, safety, and ease of administration, fosphenytoin is a valuable option for the treatment of status epilepticus.

doi:10.1159/000505827
Title:The challenges of transdermal delivery of cannabinoids
Authors:J. Riggle
Absract:As the therapuetic potential of cannabinoids for human health become more established and cannabinoid therapy gains broader acceptance as a legitimate form of treatment many new questions emerge. Which cannabinoid is best suited for what specific indication? What is the most efficient route of administration? What is the most effective dose? All of these questions address important details that need to be resolved for appropriate application of cannabinoid therapy to become a reality. Different routes of administration all come with significant limitations and disadvantages. For example, first-pass hepatic metabolism following oral administration presents a challenge when trying to provide accurate dosing. Inhalation of any type of burned organic material exposes patients to carcinogenic pyrolysis byproducts. In addition, the variable and relatively low bioavailability of cannabinoids via these different routes of administration all further contribute to the complications associated with the application of cannabinoid therapy. Transdermal delivery of certain active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)-fentanyl and progesterone for example-has been shown to be an effective form of drug delivery. The potential of transdermal delivery of cannabinoids offers an alternative method for patients seeking relief that avoids many of the complications and risks mentioned above. However, due to the protective nature of the stratum corneum, transdermal drug delivery is not a trivial matter and presents numerous challenges of its own. This presentation will focus on the nature of the stratum corneum, the associated challenges and the different approaches developed to overcome these obstacles. The latest research on transdermal cannabinoid delivery, including efficacy, formulations, specific products-transdermal patches and creams for example-and overall results will be discussed. The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of transdermal cannabinoid delivery will also be covered as well as ideal indications for the application of transdermal cannabinoid therapy. Finally, a number of human case studies utilizing transdermal delivery of cannabinoids will be presented and described.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.05.065
Title:Preparation and optimization of a dry powder for inhalation of second-line anti-tuberculosis drugs
Authors:R. RanjanA. SrivastavaR. BhartiL. RayJ. SinghA. Misra
Absract:A spray drying process was standardized to prepare an inhalable powder comprising D-cycloserine and ethionamide, two “second line” drugs employed for treating multi-drug resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB). The aim of the process development effort was to maximize product yield. Contour plots were generated using a small central composite design (CCD) with face centered (α = 1) to maximize the process yield as the response criterion. The design space was experimentally validated. Powder was prepared and characterized for drug content (HPLC), geometric size (laser scattering), surface morphology (scanning electron microscopy) aerosol behaviour (cascade impaction) and powder flow properties. The optimized process yielded a powder with a median mass aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 1.76 µ ± 3.1 geometric standard deviation (GSD). Mass balance indicated that the major proportion of the particles produced by spray drying are lost to the outlet filter. The process represents a best-case compromise of spray-drying conditions to minimize loss during droplet drying, collection and process air discharge.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2011.02.006
Title:Pulmonary delivery of therapeutic siRNA
Authors:J.K.W. LamW. LiangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Small interfering RNA (siRNA) has a huge potential for the treatment or prevention of various lung diseases. Once the RNA molecules have successfully entered the target cells, they could inhibit the expression of specific gene sequence through RNA interference (RNAi) mechanism and generate therapeutic effects. The biggest obstacle to translating siRNA therapy from the laboratories into the clinics is delivery. An ideal delivery agent should protect the siRNA from enzymatic degradation, facilitate cellular uptake and promote endosomal escape inside the cells, with negligible toxicity. Lung targeting could be achieved by systemic delivery or pulmonary delivery. The latter route of administration could potentially enhance siRNA retention in the lungs and reduce systemic toxic effects. However the presence of mucus, the mucociliary clearance actions and the high degree branching of the airways present major barriers to targeted pulmonary delivery. The delivery systems need to be designed carefully in order to maximize the siRNA deposition to the diseased area of the airways. In most of the pulmonary siRNA therapy studies in vivo, siRNA was delivered either intratracheally or intranasally. Very limited work was done on the formulation of siRNA for inhalation which is believed to be the direction for future development. This review focuses on the latest development of pulmonary delivery of siRNA for the treatment of various lung diseases. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.06.020
Title:The influence of drug loading on formulation structure and aerosol performance in carrier based dry powder inhalers
Authors:P.M. YoungO. WoodJ. OoiD. Traini
Absract:Previous studies have reported that carrier:drug ratio and carrier size influence the aerosol performance of dry powder inhalation systems. These previous studies were complicated by the heterogeneous nature of the carriers used, making it difficult to define an explicit relationship between parameters and performance. Here, the authors studied the influence of drug loading and carrier size on drug aerosol performance using homogeneous spherical model carriers. Different formulations containing drug (salbutamol sulphate) and carriers (polystyrene beads with median diameters of 82.8 μm, 277.5 μm and 582.9 μm, respectively) were prepared by varying the ratio of carrier to drug (from ∼5:1 to ∼85:1). The surface morphology of the carrier particles and force of adhesion were investigated using atomic force microscopy, while the aerosol performance was evaluated using a multi-stage liquid impinger. The carrier surface morphology for all carrier sizes was homogenous with root-mean square roughness values ≤112 nm. No significant difference in the force of adhesion between salbutamol sulphate and the three carrier sizes was observed. Significant differences in aerosol performance of salbutamol sulphate (measured as fine particle dose (FPD) and fraction (FPF) ≤ 5 μm) from the carriers were observed. Specifically, as carrier size increased FPF decreased. In comparison, as drug loading increased there was no change in FPF until a critical threshold was exceeded. Such observations suggest that: (A) aerosolisation performance is governed by carrier collisions and (B) when homogeneous carriers are used, the aerosol performance remains constant with respect to drug concentration, until the formulation transitions from an ordered mix to an agglomerated and/or segregated powder bed. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1185/030079906X132695
Title:Pulmonary delivery of insulin
Authors:J. Patton
Absract:The long-term benefits of providing intensive insulin therapy to control blood glucose levels have been demonstrated in patients with diabetes. However, achieving Improved glycemic control in clinical practice continues to be a major challenge, with only a small proportion of diabetes patients achieving current treatment goals. A number of attempts have been made to develop new ways of delivering insulin which, without the need for subcutaneous injections, may help increase the adoption of insulin treatment by diabetes patients. The most promising non-invasive route of insulin delivery is via the lung, and there are several novel inhaled insulin formulations and innovative insulin inhalers in development. The most advanced of these, Exubera® (insulin human [rDNA origin] Inhalation Powder) was approved for use in adult patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes in the United States and European Union in January 2006. Exubera uses a unique dry-powder insulin formulation (1-3 μm particles) and a hand-held, manually operated inhalation device to deliver a discrete, accurate, reproducible and effective insulin dose to the deep lung. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data show that Exubera and other inhaled insulins have a time-action profile that is well suited for mealtime insulin administration and could, therefore, represent a new opportunity for improved glycemic control and health outcomes in patients with diabetes. In preparing this article, the authors searched for references to inhaled insulin in the Medline database and in congress abstracts from 1998 to 2006. A key limitation of this literature review was the fact that Exubera is the only inhaled insulin that has been approved by regulators in Europe and North America, and it is the only inhaled insulin for which extensive efficacy and safety data is publicly available. © 2006 Librapharm Limited.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2017.1252329
Title:Inhaled phage therapy: a promising and challenging approach to treat bacterial respiratory infections
Authors:E. Bodier-MontagutelliE. MorelloG. L’HostisA. GuillonE. DalloneauR. RespaudN. PallaoroH. BloisL. VecellioJ. GabardN. Heuzé-Vourc’h
Absract:Introduction: Bacterial respiratory tract infections (RTIs) are increasingly difficult to treat due to evolving antibiotic resistance. In this context, bacteriophages (or phages) are part of the foreseen alternatives or combination therapies. Delivering phages through the airways seems more relevant to accumulate these natural antibacterial viruses in proximity to their bacterial host, within the infectious site. Areas covered: This review addresses the potential of phage therapy to treat RTIs and discusses preclinical and clinical results of phages administration in this context. Recent phage formulation and aerosolization attempts are also reviewed, raising technical challenges to achieve efficient pulmonary deposition via inhalation. Expert opinion: Overall, the inhalation of phages as antibacterial treatment seems both clinically relevant and technically feasible. Several crucial points still need to be investigated, such as phage product pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity. Furthermore, given phage-specific features, appropriate regulatory and manufacturing guidelines will need to be defined. Finally, randomized controlled clinical trials should be carried out to establish phage therapy’s clinical positioning in the antimicrobial arsenal against RTIs.

doi:10.1089/jam.2006.19.61
Title:Recent advances in aerosol therapy for children with asthma
Authors:S.G. Devadason
Absract:Inhalational drug delivery is the primary mode of asthma therapy in children, and is the main focus of this article. Pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) are now the method of choice in infants and children under 5 years old, when used in combination with an appropriate valved holding chamber or spacer. Spacers are particularly important for steroid inhalation to maximize lung deposition and minimize unwanted oropharyngeal deposition. Optimal inhalation technique with a pMDI-spacer in infants is to inhale the drug by breathing tidally through the spacer. Drug delivery to the lungs using pMDIs can vary greatly, depending on the formulation used and the age of the child. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are driven by the peak inspiratory flow of the patient and are usually not appropriate for children under 5 or 6 years of age. Nebulizers continue to play a role in the treatment of acute asthma where high doses of bronchodilator are required, though multiple doses via pMDI spacer may suffice. Important drug delivery issues specific to children include compliance, use of mask versus mouthpiece, lower tidal volumes and inspiratory flows, determination of appropriate dosages, and minimization of adverse local and systemic effects. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2019.03.029
Title:Establishment of an Evaluation Method for Gene Silencing by Serial Pulmonary Administration of siRNA and pDNA Powders: Naked siRNA Inhalation Powder Suppresses Luciferase Gene Expression in the Lung
Authors:T. ItoT. OkudaR. TakayamaH. Okamoto
Absract:In order to evaluate the in vivo effect of inhaled formulations, it is a gold standard to create a lung metastasis model by intravenously injecting cancer cells into an animal. Because the cancer grows from the blood vessel side, there is a possibility of underestimating the effect of an inhaled formulation administered to the lung epithelium side. In addition, the metastasis model has disadvantages in terms of preparation time and expense. The present study aimed to establish a new method to evaluate the effect of an inhaled small interfering RNA (siRNA) formulation that is more correct, more rapid, and less expensive. We investigated whether siRNA can suppress gene expression of plasmid DNA (pDNA) by serial pulmonary administration of siRNA and pDNA powders prepared by spray-freeze-drying. We revealed that formulations of dry siRNA powder significantly suppressed gene expression of pDNA powder compared with a control group with no siRNA. Naked siRNA inhalation powder with no vector showed the suppression of gene expression equivalent to that of an siRNA-polyethyleneimine complex without damaging tissues. These results show that the present method is suitable for evaluating the gene-silencing effect of inhaled siRNA powders.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:Current and emerging inhaled therapies of repurposed drugs
Authors:D. CipollaR.W. ChapmanM. CorbozD. KonicekF. LeiferZ. LiV. MalininA. PlauntS. RoseJ. ZhangW. Perkins
Absract:Many of the early therapies to treat respiratory conditions like asthma and COPD were first given orally or by injection. Repurposing of those therapies for inhalation allowed for improved efficacy and safety by delivering higher drug concentrations to the target organ, the lung, while reducing systemic concentrations that often are responsible for side effects. Surprisingly, this paradigm continues to the present day. A number of inhaled therapies in development are repurposed compounds that have been reformulated, or turned into prodrugs, to improve their tolerability or modify the pharmacokinetic profile in the lung. The disease areas that are being targeted include asthma, COPD, TB, IPF, PAH, CF, lung cancer, migraines, inflammatory conditions and respiratory infections. One example is an inhaled liposomal formulation of amikacin that was recently approved by the FDA to treat Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) lung disease as part of a combination antibacterial drug regimen in adults with limited or no alternative treatment options. This formulation was designed to enhance the uptake of amikacin into macrophages, the site of the MAC infection, and in vivo data confirmed a 274-fold increase compared to IV amikacin. Another example in clinical development for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is an inhaled sustained-release, prodrug formulation of treprostinil that is designed to provide an improved risk/benefit profile in a once- or twice-daily administration profile.

doi:10.1016/j.provac.2011.07.016
Title:Novel Formulation Concept for Particulate Uptake of Vaccines via the Nasal Associated Lymphoid Tissue
Authors:R. ScherließS. Trows
Absract:Aerosol vaccination via the mucosa targets an epithelium critical to host defence against inhaled pathogens, potentially avoids needle injection, and provides an exciting opportunity in the development of stable dry powder vaccine formulations. Specialised cells in the mucosa are able to take up and guide antigens directly to immune cells. In contrast to soluble antigen formulations, particles with antigen also provoke a local sIgA mediated immune response before being presented to the systemic immune system. In this study, particles containing the model antigen BSA and chitosan as stabiliser with adjuvant activity are produced by spray drying. The compatibility and uptake of these particles via the respiratory epithelium is determined in vitro on Calu-3 cells. The in vitro deposition studies are performed in a nasal cast made from CT scan data using a novel nasal dry powder device. The deposition profile is optimised by the use of interactive mixtures with a low separation capacity. The spray drying process results in spherical particles with a size in the low micrometer range (x50 3μm), which are well tolerated when administered to the cells and which are readily taken up. As the particles have to be big enough to be retained in the appropriate place in the respiratory tract (e.g. the nasal cavity) to be taken up efficiently, the primary particles are too small. Deposition studies show a high fraction of almost 56% transiting the nose and being capable of inhalation. This fraction can be reduced by utilising an interactive mixture with a carrier, where only 5% of the antigen carrying particles leave the nasal cavity. Particulate vaccine formulations are a promising formulation approach for mucosal vaccination targeting the nasal mucosa. With small antigen carrying particles immobilised on carrier particles, the antigen is delivered exclusively to the nose. © 2011.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2004.05.029
Title:Evaluation of SCF-engineered particle-based lactose blends in passive dry powder inhalers
Authors:H. SchiavoneS. PalakodatyA. ClarkP. YorkS.T. Tzannis
Absract:The objective of this study was to assess the performance of SCF-engineered budesonide and albuterol sulfate powder blends in passive dry powder inhalers (DPI) relative to micronized drug blends. A number of lactose grades for inhalation were screened and the appropriate carrier and drug-to-lactose blending ratio were selected based on drug content and emitted dose uniformity. Aerosol performance was characterized by Andersen cascade impaction. Blend formulations of SEDS (solution enhanced dispersion by supercritical fluids) budesonide and albuterol exhibited a significant drug content uniformity (7-9% RSD) improvement over micronized drug blends (16-20% RSD). Further, the SEDS formulations demonstrated higher emitted dose and reduced emitted dose variability (10-12% RSD) compared to micronized powders (21-25% RSD) in the Turbospin, albeit without significant enhancement of the fine particle fraction. In contrast, SEDS powders exhibited increased fine particle fractions over micronized blends in the Clickhaler; improvements were more pronounced with albuterol sulfate. The performance enhancements observed with the SEDS powders are attributed to their increased surface smoothness and reduced surface energy that are presumed to minimize irreversible drug-carrier particle interactions, thus resulting in more efficient drug detachment from the carrier particle surface during aerosolization. As demonstrated for budesonide and albuterol, SEDS may enhance performance of lactose blends and thus provide an attractive particle engineering option for the development of blend formulations for inhalation delivery. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1128/IAI.70.10.5479-5484.2002
Title:Influence of intravenous anesthesia on mucosal and systemic antibody responses to nasal vaccines
Authors:L. JanakovaH. BakkeI.L. HaugenA.K.H. BerstadE.A. HøibyI.S. AabergeB. Haneberg
Absract:Inhalation of antigens may stimulate the immune system by way of the upper as well as the lower airways. We have shown that at least 1,000 times more live pneumococci were recovered from pulmonary tissue after being presented as drops of a liquid suspension onto the nares of anesthetized mice compared to the number of bacteria recovered from animals that were not anesthetized in the course of the challenge. Mice that were similarly immunized intranasally by inhalation of three different nonreplicating particulate vaccine formulations, i.e., a meningococcal outer membrane vesicle (OMV) vaccine, a formalin-inactivated whole-virus influenza (INV) vaccine, and the INV vaccine with OMVs as a mucosal adjuvant, during general intravenous anesthesia developed concentrations of vaccine-specific serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies that were four to nine times higher than in mice that were fully awake during immunizations. The concentrations of IgA antibodies in serum were also higher in anesthetized than in nonanesthetized mice and correlated positively with the corresponding levels of serum IgG antibodies in the anesthetized but not in the nonanesthetized mice. In saliva and feces, however, the concentrations of IgA antibodies were equally high whether or not the animals were dormant during immunizations. The results indicate that intrapulmonary antigen presentation, as a part of an intranasal immunization strategy, is of importance for systemic but not for mucosal antibody responses. A major portion of IgA antibodies in serum may thus be derived from nonmucosal sites.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13081309
Title:Efficacy of combined rifampicin formulations delivered by the pulmonary route to treat tuberculosis in the guinea pig model
Authors:L. Garcia-ContrerasV. SethuramanM. KazantsevaA. Hickey
Absract:Liposomes, as vehicles alone or in combination with rifampicin (RIF) microparticles (RMs), were evaluated as vehicles to enhance the permeation of RIF into granulomas. RIF liposomes (RLs) were extruded through a 0.1 µm polypropylene membrane. RMs were prepared by the solvent evaporation method. Four weeks after infection, guinea pigs (GPs) were assigned to groups treated with a combination of RM-RLs or RLs alone. RLs were nebulized after extrusion whereas RMs were suspended in saline and nebulized to GPs in a nose-only inhalation chamber. Necropsy was performed after the treatment; the lungs and spleen were resected for bacteriology. RLs had mean diameters of 137.1 ± 33.7 nm whereas RMs had a projected area diameter of 2.48 µm. The volume diameter of RMs was 64 ± 1 µm, indicating that RMs were aggregated. The treatment of TB-infected GPs with RLs significantly reduced their lung bacterial burden and wet spleen weight compared with those treated with blank liposomes. The treatment of TB-infected animals with RM-RLs also reduced their lung bacterial burden and wet spleen weight even though these reductions were not statistically different. Based on these results, the permeation of RIF into granulomas appears to be enhanced when encapsulated into liposomes delivered by the pulmonary route.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11040153
Title:Simulation of Airway Deposition of an Aerosol Drug in Copd Patients
Authors:Á. FarkasF. LizalJ. JedelskyJ. ElcnerA. HorváthM. Jicha
Absract:Medical aerosols are key elements of current chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) therapy. Therapeutic effects are conditioned by the delivery of the right amount of medication to the right place within the airways, that is, to the drug receptors. Deposition of the inhaled drugs is sensitive to the breathing pattern of the patients which is also connected with the patient’s disease severity. The objective of this work was to measure the realistic inhalation profiles of mild, moderate, and severe COPD patients, simulate the deposition patterns of Symbicort@sup_begin®@sup_end Turbuhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end dry powder drug and compare them to similar patterns of healthy control subjects. For this purpose, a stochastic airway deposition model has been applied. Our results revealed that the amount of drug depositing within the lungs correlated with the degree of disease severity. While drug deposition fraction in the lungs of mild COPD patients compared with that of healthy subjects (28% versus 31%), lung deposition fraction characteristic of severe COPD patients was lower by a factor of almost two (about 17%). Deposition fraction of moderate COPD patients was in-between (23%). This implies that for the same inhaler dosage severe COPD patients receive a significantly lower lung dose, although, they would need more.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2016.1193150
Title:Could simvastatin be considered as a potential therapy for chronic lung diseases? A debate on the pros and cons
Authors:A.S. TulbahH.X. OngP. ColomboP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Introduction: Simvastatin (SV) is a drug from the statin class, currently used orally as an anti-cholesterolemic drug. It inhibits the 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase to reduce cholesterol synthesis. Recently, it has been found that SV also has several other protective pharmacological actions unrelated to its anti-cholesterol effects that might be beneficial in the treatment of chronic airway diseases. Areas covered: This review summarizes the evidence relating to SV as a potential anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant and muco-inhibitory agent, administered both orally and via pulmonary inhalation, and discusses its pro and cons. Evidence could potentially be used to support the delivery of SV as inhaled formulation for the treatment of chronic respiratory diseases. Expert opinion: The use of SV as anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant and muco-inhibitory agent for drug delivery to the lung is promising. Inhaled SV formulations could allow the delivery profile to be customized and optimized to take advantage of the rapid onset of action, low systemic side effect and improved physico-chemical stability. This treatment could potentially to be used clinically for the localized treatment of lung diseases where inflammation and oxidative stress production is present.

doi:10.1248/bpb.b15-00791
Title:Safety evaluation of dry powder formulations by direct dispersion onto air-liquid interface cultured cell layer
Authors:A. AsaiT. OkudaT. YamauchiY. SugiuraH. Okamoto
Absract:Most safety evaluations of dry powder inhalers (DPIs) using cultured cells have been performed with dry powder formulations dissolved in a medium. However, this method is not considered to be suitable to evaluate the safety of inhaled dry powder formulations correctly since it cannot reflect the actual phenomenon on the respiratory epithelial surface. In this study, we established a novel in-vitro safety evaluation system suitable for DPIs by combining an air-liquid interface cultured cell layer and a device for dispersing dry powders, and evaluated the safety of candidate excipients of dry powders for inhalation. The safety of excipients (sugars, amino acids, cyclodextrins, and positive controls) in solutions was compared using submerged cell culture systems with a conventional 96-well plate and Transwell@sup_begin®@sup_end. The sensitivity of the cells grown in Transwell@sup_begin®@sup_end was lower than that of those grown in the 96-well plate. Dry powders were prepared by spray-drying and we evaluated their safety with a novel in-vitro safety evaluation system using an air-liquid interface cultured cell layer. Dry powders decreased the cell viability with doses more than solutions. On the other hand, dissolving the dry powders attenuated their cytotoxicity. This suggested that the novel in-vitro safety evaluation system would be suitable to evaluate the safety of DPIs with high sensitivity.

doi:10.4155/tde.14.94
Title:Tobramycin inhalation powder: An efficient and efficacious therapy for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis
Authors:R. SomayajiM.D. Parkins
Absract:Inhaled antipseudomonal therapies are critical components in the management of cystic fibrosis (CF) and have significantly contributed to improved patient outcomes. Dry powder inhaler technologies represent a significant advance in drug delivery, alleviating treatment burden and potentially improving adherence associated with traditional CF nebulized therapies. Tobramycin inhalation powder (TIP) uses PulmoSphere® technology for very efficient drug delivery into the lower airways. In placebo-controlled and comparative studies with traditional tobramycin formulations, TIP is equally efficacious and is associated with increased patient convenience and satisfaction. TIP has been recommended in the 2013 CF Foundation and the 2014 European guidelines as a therapy in CF for the maintenance of lung health. Going forward, TIP may offer a therapeutic advantage over traditional formulations of tobramycin as recent prospective 'real world' studies of TIP have demonstrated high patient tolerance and improved adherence compared with traditional formulations.

doi:10.1002/jps.20590
Title:Development of a respirable, sustained release microcarrier for 5-fluorouracil II: In vitro and in vivo optimization of lipid coated nanoparticles
Authors:C.J. HitzmanW.F. ElmquistT.S. Wiedmann
Absract:The release rate of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) from lipid-coated nanoparticles (LNPs) was determined to develop a respirable delivery system for use as adjuvant (postsurgery) therapy for lung cancer. LNPs were prepared by spray drying, and the in vitro release was measured by microdialysis. The composition of the core and shell affected the release rate. Increasing the core diameter at constant shell thickness and increasing shell thickness at constant core diameter reduced the release rate, suggesting that the lipid shell is the rate limiting step for the release of 5-FU. A model consisting of a sequential zero-order/first-order dependence on time from polydispersed cores within polydispersed shells was developed to describe the release. Based on studies of the effect of geometry of the layered particles, the optimal formulation was identified as a 600-nm diameter 5-FU/poly-(glutamic acid) core with a 200-nm thick tripalmitin/cetyl alcohol shell. This system is readily aerosolized by ultrasonic atomization, which did not change the release properties. Preliminary instillation and inhalation delivery studies to the hamster resulted in lung levels of the particles and 5-FU that were near the desired values. Through this effort, a sustained-release, respirable delivery system for adjuvant therapy of lung cancer in humans may ultimately be realized. © 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1007/s11095-005-7391-9
Title:The effect of formulation variables and breathing patterns on the site of nasal deposition in an anatomically correct model
Authors:Y. GuoB. LaubeR. Dalby
Absract:Purpose. This study was conducted to evaluate the effect of formulation variables and breathing patterns on aerosol distribution in the nasal cavity. Methods. Placebo nasal spray formulations containing 0.25% w/v Avicel CL611 (viscosity = 4 cP) and 2% w/v methylcellulose (MC; viscosity = 18.2 cP) were radiolabeled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTechnicium. Following spraying into a silicone nose model, through which air was drawn at one of three constant rates (0, 10, and 20 L/min) or one of two breathing profiles (representing fast and slow inhalations), aerosol deposition in the model was quantified by gamma scintigraphy. Regional deposition was expressed as horizontal[inner, middle (h), outer] and vertical distribution [upper, middle (v), lower] in the nose model. Results. Compared to 2% MC, Avicel CL611 significantly increased aerosol deposition in the middle (h) region of the nasal cavity under all breathing conditions, and in the inner region at 0 and 20 L/min and with a slow inhalation. The different breathing rates showed no effect on deposition of 2% MC. However, 10 L/min significantly increased the upper deposition of Avicel compared to 0 and 20 L/min. Conclusions. Nasal sprays with a low viscosity provided greater surface coverage of the nasal mucosa than higher viscosity formulations. Changes in breathing profiles did not affect aerosol deposition in this nose model. © 2005 Springer Science + Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1211/002235702760345400
Title:Characterization of a surface modified dry powder inhalation carrier prepared by "particle smoothing"
Authors:P.M. YoungD. CocconiP. ColomboR. BettiniR. PriceD.F. SteeleM.J. Tobyn
Absract:Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to investigate drug-carrier interactions between beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) and a series of untreated and modified lactose surfaces. This quantitative information was correlated with bulk characterization methods and an in-vitro study. Modified lactose surfaces were prepared using a proprietary process referred to as "particle smoothing" to obtain smooth carrier surfaces with or without the presence of magnesium stearate. The engineering of lactose carrier surfaces using the particle smoothing process resulted in significant differences in surface morphology when compared with the "as supplied" starting material. The energy of separation, between BDP and lactose samples, determined by AFM suggested similar lognormal distributions with a rank decrease in median separation energy (e@sub_begin0.5@sub_end) (26.7, 20.6 and 7.7 μJ for untreated, particle-smoothed and particle-smoothed with magnesium stearate, respectively). A series of in-vitro twin stage impinger studies showed good correlation with the AFM separation energy measurements. The mean fine particle dose increased for the two processed lactose samples, with a significant increase for the lactose processed with magnesium stearate, 102.0 ± 16 μg compared with 24.2 ± 10.7 μg for the untreated lactose. Thus, the AFM presents as a possible pre-formulation tool for rapid characterization of particle interactions.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(01)00678-0
Title:Characterisation of the aggregation behaviour in a salmeterol and fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol system
Authors:Y. MichaelM.J. SnowdenB.Z. ChowdhryI.C. AshurstC.J. Davies-CuttingT. Riley
Absract:The nature of the drug-drug aggregation phenomena between salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate used in a metered-dose inhaler system has been examined. Interactions between the drugs in the solvents 1,1,2-trichlorotrifloroethane (CFC-113) and 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (HFA-134a) have been characterised using a focused beam reflectance measurement probe by measuring the average floc size of the drug particles individually and in combination as a function of stirrer rate. The floc composition in the CFC-113 system, where the drug particles cream, was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography analysis. The aggregation behaviour of the individual drugs was shown to depend on the physical and chemical properties of both the drug substance and the media. Larger flocs were observed for salmeterol xinafoate compared with fluticasone propionate, while both drugs formed larger aggregates in HFA-134a compared with in CFC-113. The floc composition studies demonstrated that, in the combined formulation in CFC-113, salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate aggregate together to form hetero-flocs. The interaction between the two drugs was such that they did not separate on creaming, despite having different densities. The average floc size of the combined drug suspension was also found to depend on the dispersion medium. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1055/s-0031-1300249
Title:Bioequivalence of inhaled formoterol fumarate assessed from pharmacodynamic, safety and urinary parmacokinetic data
Authors:A. MarzoN.C. MontiR.A. TettamantiF. CrivelliL. Dal BoP. MazzucchelliA. MeoliD. PezzutoA. Corsico
Absract:This paper deals with a crossover trial on healthy volunteers performed to obtain combined pharmacodynamic, safety and pharmacokinetic data in order to assess the bioequivalence of formoterol fumarate (CAS 43229-80-7) delivered by mono-dose dry powder inhalers, as test and reference. The trial was carried out on 24 Caucasian healthy male and female volunteers treated with 12 μg formoterol fumarate bihydrate capsules for inhalation route. Pharmacodynamics was evaluated through a challenge test with methacholine on the forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end). Safety was achieved from glucose and potassium serum levels assayed on timed samples over a 12-h period post- dosing and from blood pressure, heart rate and ECG recording. Pharmacokinetics was obtained from urinary excretion of formoterol, assessed by a highly sensitive analytical method (LC-MS-MS). Pharmacodynamic, safety and pharmacokinetic results evidenced the bioequivalence of the two formulations investigated. This investigation is an interesting approach how to assess bioequivalence when the classical approach based on the similarity of plasma concentrations can not be applied.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(98)00398-6
Title:Pulmonary distribution and clearance of two beclomethasone liposome formulations in healthy volunteers
Authors:M. SaariM.T. VidgrenM.O. KoskinenV.M.H. TurjanmaaM.M. Nieminen
Absract:The pulmonary distribution and clearance of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelled beclomethasone dipropionate (Bec) dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC) and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) liposomes were compared in 11 healthy volunteers using gamma scintigraphy. As delivered by using the Aerotech jet nebulizer both liposome aerosols had a suitable droplet size (mass median aerodynamic diameter 1.3 μm) allowing deep pulmonary deposition. However, in the total drug output during the inhalation there was a relatively large difference between DLPC and DPPC of 11.4 and 3.1 μg, respectively. In a gamma camera study no significant differences existed in the central/peripheral lung deposition between the DLPC and DPPC formulations. Progressive clearance of both Tc-labelled Bec liposomes was seen: 24 h after inhalation, 79% of the originally deposited radioactivity of DLPC liposomes and 83% of that of DPPC liposomes remained in the lungs. Thus there was slightly slower clearance of inhaled liposomes using DPPC instead of DLPC. We conclude that both liposome formulations are suitable for nebulization, although aerosol clouds were more efficiently made from the DLPC liposome suspension. Our results support the view that liposome encapsulation of a drug can offer sustained release and drug action in the lower airways. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2017.01.006
Title:Optimizing drug delivery in COPD: The role of inhaler devices
Authors:P. RoglianiL. CalzettaA. CoppolaF. CavalliJ. OraE. PuxedduM.G. MateraM. Cazzola
Absract:Background Inhaled medication is the cornerstone of the pharmacological treatment for patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Several inhaler devices exist, and each device has specific characteristics to achieve the optimal inhalation of drugs. The correct use of inhaler devices is not granted and patients may incur in mistakes when using pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) or dry-powder inhaler (DPIs). The incorrect use of inhaler devices can lead to a poorly controlled disease status. Unfortunately, guidelines provide limited guidance regarding the choice of devices. This article presents a review of the literature on different inhaler device requirements. Data from literature (PubMed and Google Scholar) on the commercially available inhaler devices have been evaluated and the history of inhaler medicine described. Furthermore, advantages and disadvantages of each type of device have been analyzed. The evaluation of literature indicated the availability of robust data on the devices characteristics and factors influencing selection of delivery devices. Each type of device has its own pro and cons. The age, cognitive status, visual acuity, manual dexterity, manual strength and ability to coordinate the inhaler actuation with inhalation may be as important as the disease severity in determining the correct approach to delivery of respiratory medication. The administration of effective therapies via a device that is simple to use and accepted by patients may help to improve treatment outcomes in patients with COPD.

doi:10.1021/mp400030n
Title:The effects of mannitol on the transport of ciprofloxacin across respiratory epithelia
Authors:H.X. OngD. TrainiR. SalamaS.D. AndersonE. DaviskasP.M. Young
Absract:Inhalation of antibiotics and mucolytics is the most important combination of inhaled drugs for chronic obstructive lung diseases and has become a standard part of treatment. However, it is yet to be determined whether the administration of a mucolytic has an effect on the transport rate of antibiotics across the airway epithelial cells. Consequently, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of inhalation dry powder, specifically mannitol, on ciprofloxacin transport using a Calu-3 air-interface cell model. Transport studies of ciprofloxacin HCl were performed using different configurations including single spray-dried ciprofloxacin alone, co-spray-dried ciprofloxacin with mannitol, and deposition of mannitol prior to ciprofloxacin deposition. To understand the mechanism of transport and interactions between the drugs, pH measurements of apical surface liquid (ASL) and further transport studies were performed with ciprofloxacin base, with and without the presence of ion channel/transport inhibitors such as disodium cromoglycate and furosemide. Mannitol was found to delay absorption of ciprofloxacin HCl through the increase in ASL volume and subsequent reduction in pH. Conversely, ciprofloxacin base had a higher transport rate after mannitol deposition. This study clearly demonstrates that the deposition of mannitol prior to ciprofloxacin on the air-interface Calu-3 cell model has an effect on its transport rate. This was also dependent on the salt form of the drug and the timing and sequence of formulations administered. © 2013 American Chemical Society.

doi:10.1080/10915810152630729
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of Benzyl Alcohol, Benzoic Acid, and Sodium Benzoate
Authors:F.A. Andersen
Absract:Benzyl Alcohol is an aromatic alcohol used in a wide variety of cosmetic formulations as a fragrance component, preservative, solvent, and viscosity-decreasing agent. Benzoic Acid is an aromatic acid used in a wide variety of cosmetics as a pH adjuster and preservative. Sodium Benzoate is the sodium salt of Benzoic Acid used as a preservative, also in a wide range of cosmetic product types. Benzyl Alcohol is metabolized to Benzoic Acid, which reacts with glycine and excreted as hippuric acid in the human body. Acceptable daily intakes were established by the World Health Organization at 5 mg/kg for Benzyl Alcohol, Benzoic Acid, and Sodium Benzoate. Benzoic Acid and Sodium Benzoate are generally recognized as safe in foods according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. No adverse effects of Benzyl Alcohol were seen in chronic exposure animal studies using rats and mice. Effects of Benzoic Acid and Sodium Benzoate in chronic exposure animal studies were limited to reduced feed intake and reduced growth. Some differences between control and Benzyl Alcohol-treated populations were noted in one reproductive toxicity study using mice, but these were limited to lower maternal body weights and decreased mean litter weights. Another study also noted that fetal weight was decreased compared to controls, but a third study showed no differences between control and Benzyl Alcohol-treated groups. Benzoic Acid was associated with an increased number of resorptions and malformations in hamsters, but there were no reproductive or developmental toxicty findings in studies using mice and rats exposed to Sodium Benzoate, and, likewise, Benzoic Acid was negative in two rat studies. Genotoxicity tests for these ingredients were mostly negative, but there were some assays that were positive. Carcinogenicity studies, however, were negative. Clinical data indicated that these ingredients can produce nonimmunologic contact urticaria and nonimmunologic immediate contact reactions, characterized by the appearance of wheals, erythema, and pruritis. In one study, 5% Benzyl Alcohol elicited a reaction, and in another study, 2% Benzoic Acid did likewise. Benzyl Alcohol, however, was not a sensitizer at 10%, nor was Benzoic Acid a sensitizer at 2%. Recognizing that the nonimmunologic reactions are strictly cutaneous, likely involving a cholinergic mechanism, it was concluded that these ingredients could be used safely at concentrations up to 5%, but that manufacturers should consider the nonimmunologic phenomena when using these ingredients in cosmetic formulations designed for infants and children. Additionally, Benzyl Alcohol was considered safe up to 10% for use in hair dyes. The limited body exposure, the duration of use, and the frequency of use were considered in concluding that the nonimmunologic reactions would not be a concern. Because of the wide variety of product types in which these ingredients may be used, it is likely that inhalation may be a route of exposure. The available safety tests are not considered sufficient to support the safety of these ingredients in formulations where inhalation is a route of exposure. Inhalation toxicity data are needed to complete the safety assessment of these ingredients where inhalation can occur.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Fluidised powder blending to control particle-particle interaction - The future of dpi formulation
Authors:A. MohammedJ. KonerO. AbionaD. Wyatt
Absract:Traditional blending processes for dry powder inhaler (DPI) manufacture involve use of equipment that relies upon the solid-solid mixing of powders to deagglomerate and disperse cohesive micronised active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) onto the surface of coarser carrier particles, which often generate mechanical shear and are generally inefficient. Researchers at Aston University have developed a novel dry coating process which avoids the limitations of solid-solid blending by micro-fluidising powders held at the surface of a rotating chamber by a strong centrifugal field (high G) through the application of a nitrogen air-blade. Cohesive API is dispersed into primary particles in the fluidised state and coated onto the surface of much larger co-fluidised lactose particles. In a model study, cohesive micronised Rhodamine B was coated onto an inhalation grade lactose to mimic a typical DPI formulation. Blends were manufactured under a range of different processing conditions and the time course of the coating process was studied using confocal microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. This work exposed the nature of the coating process and the transitions through which the fine particles pass to achieve efficient coating. In a further study, a genuine DPI formulation, micronised fluticasone propionate was coated onto lactose (at 0.71%w/w) following a design of experiment scheme. The results demonstrate how the technology can control the formulation of DPI blends through manipulation the three process parameters; process speed, air-flow rate and process time. Two-dimensional response maps at set processing times were constructed highlighting how the critical process parameters of the novel methodology control two blend responses, content uniformity and fine particle fraction performance, and illuminate a standard to which DPI performance of the future might be designed and controlled.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2016.09.053
Title:Inhalable clarithromycin liposomal dry powders using ultrasonic spray freeze drying
Authors:T. YeJ. YuQ. LuoS. WangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Liposomal dry powder inhalation for the pulmonary administration has a great potential to improve the efficacy of antibiotics while reducing adverse effects. To improve aerosolisation efficiency of liposomal dry powders, we prepared clarithromycin liposomal powder formulations (CLA-Lips-DPIs) by an ultrasonic spray freeze drying (USFD) method using 15% mannitol and 5% sucrose (W:V) as combination lyoprotectants (co-lyoprotectants). The formulation had a porous structure, comprising micron-sized particles with uniform drug content and high drug recovery. Co-lyoprotectants could modulate the liposomal powder from absorbing moisture, resulting in moisture absorption being < 15% (W/W) when stored at 75% relative humility for 2 h. The interaction of CLA, lyoprotectant and lipids of CLA-Lips-DPIs was investigated by differential scanning calorimetry. The reconstituted liposome suspension showed a high entrapment efficiency of up to 80% and a narrow size distribution due to the co-lyoprotectants protection. CLA-Lips-DPIs formulations remained unchanged after 3-month storage at 60% RH and 25 °C with a high aerosol efficiency (emitted dose > 85%, fine particle fraction 43%–50%). These results demonstrated the aerosolisation efficiency and storage of the CLA-Lips-DPIs formulation. Liposomal powder formulations prepared by USFD can potentially be an effective drug delivery system for delivering antibiotics.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.11.042
Title:Particle formation of budesonide from alcohol-modified subcritical water solutions
Authors:A.G. CarrR. MammucariN.R. Foster
Absract:Recently, subcritical water (SBCW: water that has been heated to a temperature between 100 °C and 200 °C at pressures of up to 70 bar) has been used to dissolve several hydrophobic pharmaceutical compounds (Carr et al., 2010a). Furthermore, a number of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) have been rapidly precipitated from SBCW solutions (Carr et al., 2010b,c). It is possible to alter the precipitate morphology by altering the processing variables; including the SBCW-API solution injection temperature and adding impurities (such as pharmaceutical excipients, e.g. lactose) to the precipitation chamber. The work presented in this article demonstrates that the morphology of pharmaceutical particles can be tuned by adding organic solvents (ethanol and methanol) to the SBCW-API solutions. Particle morphology has also been tuned by adding different pharmaceutical excipients (polyethylene glycol 400 and lactose) to the precipitation chamber. Different morphologies of pharmaceutical particles were produced, ranging from nanospheres of 60 nm diameter to 5 μm plate particles. Budesonide was used as the model API in this study. Two experimental products were spray dried to form dry powder products. The aerodynamic particle size of the powder was established by running the powder through an Andersen Cascade Impactor. It has been shown that the drug particles produced from the SBCW micronization process, when coupled with a spray drying process, are suitable for delivery to the lungs.© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:28457563
Title:Pharmacokinetics and safety in a single administration of oral and inhaled procaterol hydrochloride to Japanese healthy volunteers
Authors:S. Tashiro
Absract:We investigated the pharmacokinetics and safety in a single administration of oral and inhaled procaterol hydrochloride to 6 Japanese healthy volunteers. The drug in 2 formulations were given to 2 groups by crossover design in oral doses of 50 and 100μg, and in an inhaled dose of 40 μg with and without using spacer device. The mean pharmacokinetic parameter estimates of oral doses of 50 and 100 μg were as follows' maximum concentration of drug in serum [C(max)], 97 ± 48 and 226 ± 107 pg/ml; time to C(max) [T(max)], 1.08 ± 0.49 and 1.50 ± 0.55 hr; cumulative excretion rates of urinary unchanged compound of the respective doses at hour 24 [X@sub_begin0-@sub_end@sub_begin24@sub_end(hr)], 9.93 ± 3.24 and 11.65 ± 3.16%, respectively. This pharmacokinetic data presented a linearity in a dose ranging from 50 to 100μg and proved nearly the same as one obtained abroad from non-Japanese subjects. The mean pharmacokinetic parameter estimates of inhaled dose of 40μg with and without using spacer device were as follows: C(max), 71 ± 21 and 128 ± 47 pg/ml; T(max), 0.38 ± 0.14 and 0.25 ± 0 hr; X@sub_begin0-24@sub_end(hr), 11.14 ± 2.28 and 14.36 ± 3.04%, respectively. The drug appeared in the blood much more rapidly 15 minutes after inhalation. The plasma concentration time curve of cyclic AMP indicated a correlation with the plasma concentration of the drug. For safety, the results suggested a lower incidence of systemic adverse reactions in a topical therapy through inhalation than in oral administration. Further evaluation of the drug effectiveness with and without using spacer device needed a study of respiratory function improvement in asthmatic patients.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4939-8570-8_27
Title:Delivery of therapeutics to the lung
Authors:D.N. PriceP. Muttil
Absract:Pulmonary delivery in animal models can be performed using either direct administration methods or by passive inhalation. Direct pulmonary delivery requires the animal to be endotracheally intubated, whereas passive delivery uses a nose-only or a whole-body chamber. Endotracheal delivery of therapeutics and vaccines allows investigators to deliver the payload directly into the lung without the limitations associated with passive pulmonary administration methods. Additionally, endotracheal delivery can achieve deep lung delivery without the involvement of other exposure routes and is more reproducible and quantitative than passive pulmonary delivery in terms of accurate dosing. Here we describe the endotracheal delivery of both liquids and dry powders for preclinical models of treatment and exposure.

pui:25339446
Title:Pulmonary delivery of liposome-encapsulated drugs in asthma therapy
Authors:R.J. Gonzalez-RothiH. Schreier
Absract:Microencapsulation of a number of drugs in microscopic phospholipid vesicles (liposomes) for site-targeted delivery of compounds is a novel area of drug delivery. More novel is the application of this concept for aerosol delivery of drugs to the lungs, particularly as it applies to the development of topical therapies for asthma. Although still in its relative infancy, pulmonary drug delivery of liposomal antiasthma drugs is a promising method of conferring sustained release and prolonged duration of action of drugs in the lung. It provides lung-targeted drug delivery with minimal systemic availability, thereby affording reduction in undesirable systemic adverse effects. The technology for delivery of liposomal antiasthma drugs as aqueous aerosols, metered dose inhalers and dry powder formulations for inhalation is evolving. This article provides an overview of various aspects of pulmonary delivery of a variety of liposomal antiasthma drugs.

doi:10.1016/j.opresp.2020.05.006
Title:New Inhaled Antibiotics and Forms of Administration
Authors:L. Máiz CarroM. Blanco-Aparicio
Absract:Inhalation is the route of choice in the treatment of chronic bronchial infection. Administering antibiotics in this way reduces sputum volume and purulence and the number and severity of exacerbations, and slows lung function decline, while producing fewer side effects than the systemic route. There are two types of inhaled antibiotics, nebulized (if the antibiotic is presented in suspension or solution) and dry powder. The efficacy and safety of dry powder antibiotics are similar to nebulized formulations, but they often produce more cough, leading in some cases to discontinuation of treatment. Additional advantages include presentation in small devices, shorter cleaning time, reduced inhalation time — facilitating therapeutic adherence — and less contamination of the device compared to nebulizers. Currently, 4 antibiotics are available in solution (tobramycin, colistin, aztreonam, and levofloxacin) and 2 in dry powder (tobramycin and colistin). Four formulations of antibiotics are currently in clinical development, 2 in solution (liposomal formulations of ciprofloxacin and amikacin) and 2 in dry powder (ciprofloxacin and vancomycin). In the near future, other dry powder antibiotics suitable for use in both patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and in patients with non-CF bronchiectasis will become available.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2016.01.002
Title:Amorphous powders for inhalation drug delivery
Authors:L. ChenT. OkudaX.-Y. LuH.-K. Chan
Absract:For inhalation drug delivery, amorphous powder formulations offer the benefits of increased bioavailability for poorly soluble drugs, improved biochemical stability for biologics, and expanded options of using various drugs and their combinations. However, amorphous formulations usually have poor physicochemical stability. This review focuses on inhalable amorphous powders, including the production methods, the active pharmaceutical ingredients and the excipients with a highlight on stabilization of the particles.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.04.002
Title:Comparison of physical and inhalation properties of spray-dried and micronized terbutaline sulphate
Authors:T.H.H. ThiF. DanèdeM. DescampsM.-P. Flament
Absract:Terbutaline sulphate particles, for use in dry powder inhaler formulations, were prepared by spray-drying, using a Büchi 190 mini spray dryer. Spray-drying conditions were chosen to allow the production of spray-dried terbutaline sulphate with a size similar to micronized terbutaline sulphate, that is to say about 2.9 μm of volume mean diameter. The physical properties and in vitro inhalation behaviour of micronized and spray-dried terbutaline sulphate were compared. X-ray diffraction, DSC, SEM and laser size analysis were investigated. Spray-dying produced spherically shaped particles with amorphous structure. After blending with different lactoses, adhesion and aerodynamic properties were investigated. Evaluation of adhesion was carried out with a mechanical sieve and an Alpine air-jet sieve. The adhesion of terbutaline sulphate on the lactoses tested was lower in the case of the spray-dried drug. Aerodynamic evaluation of fine particle dose and emitted dose was conducted using a twin stage impactor. The emitted doses and the fine particle doses were higher with the spray-dried terbutaline sulphate. The Alpine air-jet sieve assays showed that there was a correlation between drug separation from a carrier by sieving and that obtained from longer in vitro deposition studies. There was a linear relationship between the adhesion characteristics and the fine particle dose. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0761-8425(07)92765-5
Title:Aerosol: Present and future
Authors:G. ReychlerJ.F. DessangesL. Vecellio
Absract:Introduction: Aerosols, these particles considered initially like "magic", are slowly delivering their secrets. State of art: For several years studies on the subject have increased and companies have maximised their efforts to improve the technology for transforming drugs into the optimal aerosol. Recently new systems have appeared on the market. Mesh nebulisers can reduce the inhalation time, metered dose inhalers have modified their formulations to improve the efficiency of drug deposition and dry powder inhalers require lower inspiratory flows. Perspectives/Conclusions: In the near future new systems using technologies of greater or lesser sophistication should appear on the market. © 2007 SPLF. Édité par Elsevier Masson SAS.

pui:632377870
Title:Single and repeated dose pharmacokinetics of QRM-003 in rodent models
Authors:B. BanaschewskiA.C. LopezP.J. KuehlS. UferK. StapletonT. Hofmann
Absract:Rationale: Nontuberculous mycobacterial pulmonary disease (NTM-PD) is rapidly increasing in prevalence worldwide, with few treatments available. Oral clofazimine, which has been used in the treatment of NTM-PD, has been shown to accumulate within liver, spleen, subcutaneous fat, and small intestinal tissues. This pattern can lead to a number of systemic side effects, including skin discoloration and gastrointestinal intolerance, and have been reported to lead to drug discontinuation in 6.5-33% of patients. Clofazimine inhalation suspension (QRM-003) is a novel suspension being developed for the treatment of NTM-PD. Initial studies have demonstrated that QRM-003 is tolerated in animal models, and more effective at eradicating NTM infection in mouse models than oral formulations. Previous reports have shown that there is an increase in clofazimine lung tissue concentrations following inhaled dosing compared to oral, and a reduction in extrapulmonary tissue concentrations. However, the QRM-003 pharmacokinetic profile is currently unknown. Methods: Naïve Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into one of three treatment arms: Single Low Dose QRM-003 (0.2 mg/kg deposited); Single High Dose QRM-003 (1 mg/kg deposited); or Five-Day Repeated Dose QRM-003 (0.2 mg/kg deposited). Animals were sacrificed at ten timepoints over the following 14 days. Plasma and lung tissue samples were collected, and clofazimine concentrations were determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy. Peak clofazimine concentration (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end), apparent terminal half-life (t1/2), time to maximal concentration (t@sub_beginmax@sub_end) and exposure (AUC@sub_begin0-336@sub_end) were determined by non-compartmental analysis. Results: Clofazimine concentrations were still detectible in both lung tissue and plasma samples 14 days after single dose administration. Clofazimine exposure increased dose proportionally in lung tissue, but not in plasma. Increased QRM-003 dosing led to an increase in clofazimine lung:plasma ratios. In repeated dose administrations, both lung tissue and plasma clofazimine trough concentrations appear to plateau over the 5-days dosing. By Day 14, there was 6.7x the lung tissue concentration following repeated dose compared to the equivalent single dose, suggesting tissue retention in the lungs. Conclusion: Following inhalation, QRM-003 led to significant deposition and retention of clofazimine within the lung tissue, with a long half-life. We anticipate that the pulmonary retention of clofazimine following inhalation will result in lower extrapulmonary tissue accumulation, i.e. subcutaneous fat and small intestinal tissue, which are the main sites of clofazimine adverse events. Additional studies are ongoing to evaluate drug distribution to these tissues following inhaled delivery, and to compare extrapulmonary exposure following oral vs. inhaled clofazimine delivery.

doi:10.1016/j.vph.2021.106840
Title:Comparative bioavailability of inhaled treprostinil administered as LIQ861 and Tyvaso® in healthy subjects
Authors:R.F. RoscignoT. VaughnE. ParsleyT. HuntM.A. EldonL.J. Rubin
Absract:Introduction: Treprostinil is a synthetic prostacyclin analogue approved for inhalation administration to patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) via nebulized Tyvaso® inhalation solution. LIQ861 is an inhaled, dry-powder formulation of treprostinil produced using Print® (Particle Replication in Nonwetting Templates) technology, a proprietary process for designing and producing highly uniform drug particles. Methods: We conducted comparative bioavailability analyses of treprostinil exposure from LIQ861 (79.5 μg capsule [approximate delivered dose of 58.1 μg treprostinil]) compared with Tyvaso® (9 breaths [approximate delivered dose of 54 μg treprostinil]). Results: Treprostinil exposure parameters had least squares geometric mean ratios (LIQ861: Tyvaso®) between 0.9 and 1.0 with 90% confidence intervals contained within 0.8 to 1.25. LIQ861 and Tyvaso® were both well tolerated. Discussion: Results showed comparable bioavailability of treprostinil and similar tolerability for LIQ861 and Tyvaso® administered to healthy adults. Conclusions: Given the comparable treprostinil bioavailability and similar safety profiles of LIQ861 and Tyvaso®, LIQ861 fulfills a significant unmet need for PAH patients by maximizing the therapeutic benefits of treprostinil by safely delivering doses to the lungs in 1 to 2 breaths using a discreet, convenient, easy-to-use inhaler.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2005.11.029
Title:Air classifier technology (ACT) in dry powder inhalation: Part 4. Performance of air classifier technology in the Novolizer® multi-dose dry powder inhaler
Authors:A.H. De BoerP. HagedoornD. GjaltemaJ. GoedeH.W. Frijlink
Absract:In this study, the in vitro fine particle deposition from a multi dose dry powder inhaler (Novolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end) with air classifier technology has been investigated. It is shown that different target values for the fine particle fraction (fpf < 5 μm) of the same drug can be achieved in a well-controlled way. This is particularly relevant to the application of generic formulations in the inhaler. The well-controlled and predictable fpf is achieved through dispersion of different types of formulations in exactly the same classifier concept. On the other hand, it is shown that air classifier-based inhalers are less sensitive to the carrier surface and bulk properties than competitive inhalers like the Diskus@sup_begin®@sup_end. For 10 randomly selected lactose carriers for inhalation from four different suppliers, the budesonide fpf (at 4 kPa) from the Novolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end varied between 30 and 46% (of the measured dose; R.S.D. = 14.2%), whereas the extremes in fpf from the Diskus@sup_begin®@sup_end dpi were 7 and 44% (R.S.D. = 56.2%) for the same formulations. The fpf from a classifier-based inhaler appears to be less dependent of the amount of lactose (carrier) fines (<15 μm) in the mixture too. Classifier-based inhalers perform best with coarse carriers that have relatively wide size distributions (e.g. 50-350 μm) and surface discontinuities inside which drug particles can find shelter from press-on forces during mixing. Coarse carrier fractions have good flow properties, which increases the dose measuring accuracy and reproducibility. The fpf from the Novolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end increases with increasing pressure drop across the device. On theoretical grounds, it can be argued that this yields a more reproducible therapy, because it compensates for a shift in deposition to larger airways when the flow rate is increased. Support for this reasoning based on lung deposition modelling studies has been found in a scintigraphic study with the Novolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end. Finally, it is shown that this inhaler produces a finer aerosol than competitor devices, within the fpf < 5 μm, subfractions of particles (e.g. <1, 1-2, 2-3, 3-4 and 4-5 μm) are higher. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2021.102903
Title:Systematic development and characterization of inhalable dry powder containing Polymeric Lipid Hybrid Nanocarriers co-loaded with ABCB1 shRNA and docetaxel using QbD approach
Authors:D. BardoliwalaV. PatelA. MisraK. Sawant
Absract:The main objective of this research work was to extend the principles of the Quality by Design approach in optimization and development of dry powder inhalers containing hybrid nanocarriers for effective treatment of multidrug-resistant lung cancer. Two statistical designs were used to justify the feasibility and advantages of the Qbd approach for the development of PLHNCs (Polymeric Lipid Hybrid Nanocarriers). The particle size and encapsulation efficiency were selected as quality target profile. Plackett-Burman design (PBD) was used as the first design to evaluate 7 high-risk variables that have significant effect on the characteristics of PLHNCs. Among the 7 high-risk variables, 3 variables (i.e., concentration of polymer, lipid to polymer ratio and drug input) had a significant effect on encapsulation efficiency of PLHNCs. Box-Behnken design (BBD) was employed as the second statistical design to fully elucidate the formulation development parameters. It was found that the optimized range for the parameters showed promising results to achieve a quality target profile. Further, the optimized PLHNCs formulation was subjected to lyophilization using various cryoprotectants to increase drug retention and dry powder inhaler was developed using different grades of modified lactose to achieve better aerodymic properties. The PLHNCs developed using PBD and BBD showed significant increase in Docetaxel encapsulation along with high shRNA pDNA complexation. The developed product had an higher fine particle fraction (68.3 ± 2.5%) along with high drug retention (98.3 ± 3.1%) which showed how efficiently the developed dry powder of PLHNCs would be able to target the respiratory zone of the lungs.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2014.04.065
Title:Towards the optimisation and adaptation of dry powder inhalers
Authors:Y. CuiS. SchmalfußS. ZellnitzM. SommerfeldN. Urbanetz
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery by dry powder inhalers is becoming more and more popular. Such an inhalation device must insure that during the inhalation process the drug powder is detached from the carrier due to fluid flow stresses. The goal of the project is the development of a drug powder detachment model to be used in numerical computations (CFD, computational fluid dynamics) of fluid flow and carrier particle motion through the inhaler and the resulting efficiency of drug delivery. This programme will be the basis for the optimisation of inhaler geometry and dry powder inhaler formulation. For this purpose a multi-scale approach is adopted. First the flow field through the inhaler is numerically calculated with OpenFOAM@sup_begin®@sup_end and the flow stresses experienced by the carrier particles are recorded. This information is used for micro-scale simulations using the Lattice-Boltzmann method where only one carrier particle covered with drug powder is placed in cubic flow domain and exposed to the relevant flow situations, e.g. plug and shear flow with different Reynolds numbers. Therefrom the fluid forces on the drug particles are obtained. In order to allow the determination of the drug particle detachment possibility by lift-off, sliding or rolling, also measurements by AFM (atomic force microscope) were conducted for different carrier particle surface structures. The contact properties, such as van der Waals force, friction coefficient and adhesion surface energy were used to determine, from a force or moment balance (fluid forces versus contact forces), the detachment probability by the three mechanisms as a function of carrier particle Reynolds number. These results will be used for deriving the drug powder detachment model. © 2014 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1211/0022357001774462
Title:The influence of crystallization conditions on the morphology of lactose intended for use as a carrier for dry powder aerosols
Authors:X.M. ZengG.P. MartinC. MarriottJ. Pritchard
Absract:Lactose has been widely used as a carrier for inhalation aerosols. The carrier morphology is believed to affect the delivery of the drug. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of crystallization conditions on the morphology of α-lactose monohydrate intended for use as the carrier for dry powder aerosols. The crystallization of lactose was carried out from aqueous solutions at different supersaturations, temperatures, different stages of crystallization and in the presence of different water-miscible organic solvents. The majority of lactose crystals were found to be either tomahawk-shaped or pyramidal after crystallization at an initial lactose concentration between 33-43% w/w, but these became prismatic if the lactose concentration was increased to 50% w/w. A further increase in the lactose concentration to 60% w/w led to the preparation of elongated cuboidal crystals. Higher initial lactose concentrations tended to result in the crystallization of more elongated particles. Crystallization at 40°C was shown to prepare lactose crystals with a more regular shape and a smoother surface than those crystallized at 0°C. Lactose particles generated during the later stage of crystallization were found to be more regular in shape with a smoother surface than those prepared in the earlier stage. The addition of 10% (v/v) methanol or ethanol or acetone to the mother liquor increased the growth rate of lactose particles whereas addition of propanol or glycerine inhibited the rate of crystal growth. Lactose crystals prepared in the presence of glycerine were more regularly shaped with a smoother surface than those prepared in the presence of ethanol or acetone. All the resultant crystals were shown to comprise α-lactose monohydrate. Lactose crystals could be prepared with a precisely defined morphology by means of carefully controlling the crystallization conditions.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(99)00132-5
Title:Innovations and perspectives of metered dose inhalers in pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:M. Keller
Absract:The phase-out of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) has spurred the development of alternative pulmonary drug delivery systems to pressurized metered dose inhalers (MDIs), such as dry powder inhalers and pocket size nebulizers. Reformulation of CFC-MDIs with hydrofluoroalkanes (HFAs) 134a and 227 is also an opportunity to improve these widely accepted systems with respect to ease of handling, compliance, dosing, and more reliable and efficient lung deposition. MDIs have the advantage to protect the drug substance from external parameters such as temperature and humidity and to meter and de-agglomerate the drug independent from patients inspiratory flow rates. Novel formulation technologies combined with improved valves and actuators should help to overcome dose uniformity and priming problems and will increase the percentage of fine particles capable of reaching the deeper regions of the lungs. Spacer mouthpieces can reduce the cold freon effect and undesired oropharyngeal deposition caused by the rapid evaporation of the propellant and plume velocity of the aerosol cloud. More advanced delivery devices may allow the patient to inhale at predetermined flow rates (fast/slow) to target the deposition of fine drug particles (1-6 μm) to specific sites into the lungs. Breath-actuated devices make these systems more effective and patient friendly. The above features in combination with numerical counters showing the remaining number of shots, and built-in blocking mechanisms to avoid tail-off dependent dose uniformity problems of the last labeled shots, should help to improve both acceptance and compliance of pMDIs compared to other inhalation devices. However, only those inhalation systems, which are accepted and appreciated by patients and offering an ambulatory treatment at reasonable cost, will be successful in a more and more competitive market. These issues must be considered in the development of future devices and formulations. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1208/s12248-014-9588-5
Title:Polymeric nanocarriers for transport modulation across the pulmonary epithelium: Dendrimers, polymeric nanoparticles, and their nanoblends
Authors:B. BharatwajR. DimovskiD.S. ContiS.R.P. Da Rocha
Absract:The purpose of this study was to (a) Determine the cellular transport and uptake of amine-terminated generation 3 (G3) poly(amido amine) (PAMAM) dendrimers across an in vitro model of the pulmonary epithelium, and the ability to modulate their transport by forming nanoblends of the dendrimers with biodegradable solid polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) and (b) to formulate dendrimer nanocarriers in portable oral inhalation devices and evaluate their aerosol characteristics. To that end, fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled G3 PAMAM dendrimer nanocarriers (DNCs) were synthesized, and also encapsulated within poly lactide-co-glycolide nanoparticles (NPs). Transport and uptake of both DNCs encapsulated within NPs (nanoblends) and unencapsulated DNCs were tracked across polarized monolayers of airway epithelial cells, Calu-3. DNCs were also formulated as core-shell microparticles in pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) and their aerodynamic properties evaluated by Andersen cascade impaction. The apparent permeability of DNCs across the airway epithelial model was similar to that of a paracellular marker of comparable molar mass-order of 10@sup_begin-7@sup_end cm s@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The transport and cellular internalization of the DNCs can be modulated by formulating them as nanoblends. The transport of the DNCs across the lung epithelium was completely suppressed within the time of the experiment (5 h) when formulated as blends. The encapsulation also prevents saturation of the cellular internalization profile. Nanoblending may be a potential strategy to modulate the rate of transport and cellular uptake of DNCs, and thus be used as a design strategy to achieve enhanced local or systemic drug delivery. © 2014 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2012.1013
Title:Micronized drug powders in binary mixtures and the effect of physical properties on aerosolisation from combination drug dry powder inhalers
Authors:K. JetmalaniP.M. YoungT. SmithP. StewartD. Traini
Absract:Background: The use of combination drugs via pulmonary delivery, like inhaled corticosteroids and long acting beta-2 agonists, has become a popular therapeutic strategy for asthma and COPD patients. Although conventional dry powder inhalation formulations have been extensively studied, little research has focused on the aerosolisation efficiency of combination drug formulations with respect to the drug ratios used. Methods: Two micronized drugs, salbutamol sulphate (SS) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) were evaluated for their physico-chemical properties and prepared as physical blends in different drug ratio - SS:BDP 0:100, 25:75, 50:50, 75:25 and 100:0 (w/w). The five blends were assessed for aerosol performances, using a multi-stage liquid impinger and a Rotahaler ®. Results: SS had a needle-like morphology and a diameter of 4.33 ±0.37μm, while BDP had a plate-like shape and a diameter of 2.99 ±0.15 μm. This was reflected in the aerosolisation performance of the two drugs where, SS had a significantly higher fine particle fraction (FPF) than BDP (12.3% ±3.1% and 2.9% ±0.2%, respectively). In contrast, FPF of the two drugs from the binary blends, at all three ratios, were similar. A plot of loaded vs. emitted dose indicated that powder bed fluidization was significantly different than when the drugs were tested individually. Analysis of the Raman map suggested the majority to contain the mixed spectra, suggesting that SS and BDP were adhesive, forming a homogeneous mixture. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that the formulation of binary systems, containing two drugs, is complex and maybe attributed to a series of complex factors including: physical interaction, particle size and geometry.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2007.11.019
Title:An investigation into the relationship between carrier-based dry powder inhalation performance and formulation cohesive-adhesive force balances
Authors:M.D. JonesH. HarrisJ.C. HootonJ. ShurG.S. KingC.A. MathoulinK. NicholT.L. SmithM.L. DawsonA.R. FerrieR. Price
Absract:The inclusion of different carrier materials in a dry powder inhaler (DPI) system can alter formulation performance, which might be attributable to variation in the adhesion between drug and carrier particles. The aim of this study was, therefore, to further examine the relationship between drug-carrier adhesion and performance, by comparing data relating to many different drug-carrier combinations. Four drugs and four carriers were employed, giving a total of 16 combinations. The relative magnitude of the drug-carrier adhesion for each combination was quantified using the cohesion-adhesion balance (CAB) approach to colloidal probe atomic force microscopy. The in vitro inhalation performance of the 16 formulations (1.5% w/w drug) was investigated and found to vary significantly. Plots of fine particle dose against drug-carrier CAB ratio revealed that performance was optimised when the drug-carrier CAB ratio was slightly cohesive. This trend was found to fit with those from similar previous studies, although due to the smaller number of formulations investigated previously, the full extent of this relationship had not been revealed. It was concluded, therefore, that when developing a carrier-based DPI, the selection of a drug-carrier combination with a slightly cohesive CAB ratio might result in optimal performance. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(95)04337-3
Title:Influence of excipients and storage humidity on the deposition of disodium cromoglycate (DSCG) in the Twin Impinger
Authors:M.A. BraunR. OschmannP.C. Schmidt
Absract:The in vitro deposition pattern of disodium cromoglycate (DSCG) from a unit dose dry powder inhaler device (Microhaler®) was investigated using the Twin Impinger. Four excipients with differing particle sizes, two α- lactose monohydrate grades (Pharmatose 325 M, χ@sub_begin50@sub_end= 56.3 μm and Granulac 220, χ@sub_begin50@sub_end = 15.6 μm) and two dextrose monohydrate grades (Roferose FF, χ@sub_begin50@sub_end = 102.8 μm and Roferose SF, χ@sub_begin50@sub_end = 37.4 μm), were mixed with DSCG in the ratio 1 plus 1 and 1 plus 4 at low relative humidity. Loose spherical agglomerates were formed in a rotating drum and then the mixtures were filled into hard gelatin capsules size 3 and stored at 33 and 55% RH, respectively. The deposition pattern was investigated using the Twin Impinger at a flow rate of 60 l/min. The amount of DSCG deposited in the lower impingement chamber, corresponding to a particle size of ≤6.4 μm, was markedly influenced by the humidity level during storage. In all experiments, the line particle fraction from mixtures stored at 33% RH was higher compared to those stored at 55% RH. Mixtures containing 1 part DSCG plus 1 part excipient showed higher deposition rates than the 4 + 1 mixtures. Excipients with a smaller mean particle diameter gave a higher DSCG deposition in the lower impingement chamber. Best results were obtained with the 1 + 1 mixtures of DSCG and fine lactose (Granulac 220) with 41% and DSCG and fine glucose (Roferose SF) with 38%, respectively. The results indicate that dry powder inhalations can be optimized by appropriate selection of the excipient, because its particle size distribution and its proportion in a formulation in combination with the storage humidity are important factors determining the inhalation fraction of a formulation.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.08.124
Title:Effect of the pulmonary deposition and in vitro permeability on the prediction of plasma levels of inhaled budesonide formulation
Authors:S. Salar-BehzadiS. WuA. MercuriC. MeindlS. StranzingerE. Fröhlich
Absract:The growing interest in the inhalable pharmaceutical products requires advanced approaches to safe and fast product development, such as in silico tools that can be used for estimating the bioavailability and toxicity of developed formulation. GastroPlus™ is one of the few available software packages for in silico simulation of PBPK profile of inhalable products. It contains a complementary module for calculating the lung deposition, the permeability and the systemic absorption of inhalable products. Experimental values of lung deposition and permeability can also be used. This study aims to assess the efficiency of simulation by applying experimental permeability and deposition values, using budesonide as a model substance. The lung deposition values were obtained from the literature, the lung permeability data were experimentally determined by culturing Calu-3 cells under air-liquid interface and submersed conditions to morphologically resemble bronchial and alveolar epithelial cells, respectively. A two-compartment PK model was created for i.v. administration and used as a background for the in silico simulation of the plasma profile of budesonide after inhalation. The predicted plasma profile was compared with the in vivo data from the literature and the effects of experimental lung deposition and permeability on prediction were assessed. The developed model was significantly improved by using realistic lung deposition data combined with experimental data for peripheral permeability.

doi:10.1002/jps.23304
Title:Preparation and evaluation of single and co-engineered combination inhalation carrier formulations for the treatment of asthma
Authors:D. TrainiH. AdiO.K. ValetP.M. Young
Absract:Two combination dry powder inhalation formulations were engineered via spray drying and co-spray drying salbutamol base (SB) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP). The aerosol performances of the individual drugs, a physical mix and the co-spray-dried particle systems were investigated after blending with conventional lactose carrier, under realistic dose regimes. Furthermore, each system was evaluated in terms of the physicochemical properties and via high-throughput Raman microscopy (to study co-association and deposition patterns after in vitro aerosolisation studies). In general, analysis of the aerosol performance (measured using a next-generation impactor) of the single drug and physical mix formulations suggested that SB and BDP have significantly different stage-deposition profiles. Such observations were further substantiated by scanning electron microscopy, where SB-BDP agglomeration could be observed in the physical mix. Stage deposition from the SB-BDP co-spray-dried powders were different than that for the physical mix, wherein the amount of SB and BDP on each stage was equivalent; suggesting that the two drugs could be targeted and deposited at the same location on the lung epithelia. Raman microscopy of the physical mix and co-spray-dried formulations also confirmed the differences in stage deposition between formulations and co-localised deposition for the co-spray-dried formulation. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.1055/s-0031-1296253
Title:Comparative bioavailability of two hydrofluoroalkane formulations of formoterol fumarate both delivered by pressurised metered dose inhaler
Authors:C.J. PoS.S. ChandranN. SyedK.R. NaiduM. RathodA. SuleA. LullaS. Purandare
Absract:A randomised, open-label, single dose, four-period crossover study was performed in healthy male human subjects to compare the pharmacokinetics of formoterol fumarate (CAS 43229-80-7) after inhalation from two different hydrofluoro - alkane (HFA) pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) formulations at two dose levels, 12 and 24 μg. This is the first study which has evaluated two HFA formulations of formoterol. Fourteen subjects were randomised, of which 13 completed the study. Each subject received in separate periods a single dose of 12 μg or 24 μg of each formulation. Blood samples for determination of formoterol plasma concentrations were taken pre-administration of study treatments and subsequently at 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 45, 60, 90 min and 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24 and 36 h post-administration of the study treatments. The pharmacokinetic profiles of both the formulations were similar in shape and a dose-related increase in formoterol plasma concentration was seen at all time points for both the test and reference formoterol HFA formulations between the dose levels 12 μg and 24 μg. Overall, the findings indicate that treatment with the test formoterol HFA preparation has a lung absorption pattern and systemic exposure comparable to the already licensed reference formoterol HFA preparation. © ECV Editio Cantor Verlag.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.10.025
Title:Methacholine dry powder inhaler as a new tool for bronchial challenge test
Authors:G. ColomboC. TerzanoP. ColomboA. PetroianniA. RicciF. Buttini
Absract:Background: The methacholine (MCH) challenge test is performed to detect bronchial hyperresponsiveness in subjects suffering from asthma. It is conducted by inhaling spasmogen substances at increasing doses and measuring FEV1-PD20 variation following the bronchoconstriction evoked. Aim: This paper describes a new method for MCH challenge test using pre-metered respirable powders of MCH at different doses for facilitating test execution. The availability of a series of pre-metered doses gives higher control over aerosolized dose and fine particle fraction (respirable dose), improving the accuracy and repeatability of the test. Dosimetric tests with MCH solution and pre-dosed powder challenge tests were clinically compared. Methods and materials: The inhalation powders were prepared by spray drying of solutions of methacholine, mannitol and hydroxypropylmethylcellulose in which different concentrations of MCH were included. The methacholine powders prepared were carefully characterized in terms of aerodynamic properties. Results: Inhalation powders containing methacholine from 12.5 to 200 μg per metered dose, having a fine particle fraction between 40 and 60%, were prepared using mannitol and cellulose polymer. Eighteen subjects (12 hyperresponsive and six normal) were subjected to both the MCH solution and powder tests in random sequence. No significant differences in FEV1 and PD20 values were found between the challenge tests performed with liquid and powder formulations of methacholine. Conclusions: Powders of MCH having high respirability of the delivered doses can be prepared by spray drying. They allow for the performance of a challenge test using a dry powder inhaler. The powder dose series can be an alternative to the current dosimetric test with MCH solutions. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:24290022
Title:Regulatory aspects of modifications to innovator bronchodilator metered dose inhalers and development of generic substitutes
Authors:W.P. AdamsG. PoochikianA.S. TaylorR.M. PatelG.P. BurkeR.L. Williams
Absract:Regulatory requirements for modifications to an approved innovator metered dose inhaler (pressurized MDI; USP nomenclature: inhalation aerosol) and for development of a new generic product are discussed. Although many of the requirements apply generally to MDI's, they are discussed with specific reference to albuterol. Changes to the container and closure system may impact on the dosimetry of the redesigned product, as well as upon toxicologic and chemistry, manufacturing and controls (CMC) concerns. Changes to the formulation, including the use of alternate propellants, may raise issues requiring both clinical and in vitro performance evaluation. In view of the level of interest of a number of firms in approval requirements for generic Albuterol Inhalation Aerosol products, the article discusses in considerable detail the CMC and bioequivalence requirements for a generic product. Similarities in the CMC requirements for innovator and generic products are evident. Three comparative in vitro bioequivalence tests, particle size distribution, spray pattern and plume geometry, and unit spray content, established by the Division of Bioequivalence are discussed. Similarities and differences in the in vivo requirements for innovator and generic products are evident. Differences are the result of U.S. statute, which requires safety and efficacy testing for a product approved under a new drug application (NDA), but documentation of bioequivalence for a product approved under an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA). The advantages and disadvantages of three pharmacodynamic study designs which have potential usefulness for documentation of in vivo bioequivalence are discussed.

doi:10.3390/ph14101059
Title:Physicochemical characteristics and in vitro toxicity/anti-sars-cov-2 activity of favipiravir solid lipid nanoparticles (Slns)
Authors:A.S. TulbahW.-H. Lee
Absract:The rise of coronavirus (COVID-19) cases worldwide has driven the need to discover and develop novel therapeutics with superior efficacy to treat this disease. This study aims to develop an innovative aerosolized nano-formulation of favipiravir (FPV) as an anti-viral agent against coronavirus infection. The local delivery of FPV nanoparticles (NPs) via nebulization ensures that the drug can reach the site of infection, the lungs. Solid lipid NPs of favipiravir (FPV-SLNs) were formulated utilizing the hot-evaporation method. The physicochemical formulation properties were evaluated using dynamic light scattering (DLS), Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). The aerosol formulation performance was evaluated using an Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI) at a flow rate of 15 L/min. The FPV-SLN formulation’s in vitro anti-viral activity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was also evaluated using the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen (hCoV-19/Egypt/NRC-3/2020 isolate). The FPV-SLNs’ morphology was defined utilizing transmission electron microscopy, showing an irregular shape. By means of FPV-SLNs’ nebulization, a fine particle fraction of 60.2 ± 1.7% was produced with 60.2 ± 1.7%, and this finding suggests that FPV-SLNs were appropriate for inhalation drug delivery with a particle size of 537.6 ± 55.72 nm. Importantly, the FPV-SLNs showed anti-viral activity against SARS-CoV-2 with CC@sub_begin50@sub_end and IC50 values of 449.6 and 29.9 µg/mL, respectively. This study suggests that inhaled solid lipid NPs of favipiravir could potentially be used against coronavirus.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12080765
Title:The effect of particle size and surface roughness of spray-dried bosentan microparticles on aerodynamic performance for dry powder inhalation
Authors:Y.-B. KwonJ.-H. KangC.-S. HanD.-W. KimC.-W. Park
Absract:The purpose of this study was to prepare spray dried bosentan microparticles for dry powder inhaler and to characterize its physicochemical and aerodynamic properties. The microparticles were prepared from ethanol/water solutions containing bosentan using spray dryer. Three types of formulations (SD60, SD80, and SD100) depending on the various ethanol concentrations (60%, 80%, and 100%, respectively) were used. Bosentan microparticle formulations were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, powder X-ray diffraction, laser diffraction particle sizing, differential scanning calorimetry, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, dissolution test, and in vitro aerodynamic performance using Andersen cascade impactor@sup_begin™@sup_end (ACI) system. In addition, particle image velocimetry (PIV) system was used for directly confirming the actual movement of the aerosolized particles. Bosentan microparticles resulted in formulations with various shapes, surface morphology, and particle size distributions. SD100 was a smooth surface with spherical morphology, SD80 was a rough surfaced with spherical morphology and SD60 was a rough surfaced with corrugated morphology. SD100, SD80, and SD60 showed significantly high drug release up to 1 h compared with raw bosentan. The aerodynamic size of SD80 and SD60 was 1.27 µm and SD100 was 6.95 µm. The microparticles with smaller particle size and a rough surface aerosolized better (%FPF: 63.07 ± 2.39 and 68.27 ± 8.99 for SD60 and SD80, respectively) than larger particle size and smooth surface microparticle (%FPF: 22.64 ± 11.50 for SD100).

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Extending the capability of high dose DPI formulation using a new blending technology
Authors:J.S. KonerD. WyattS. LungareR. JonesA.R. Mohammed
Absract:Industry standard blending technologies, such as high shear mixers, do not adequately deagglomerate and disperse active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particles at concentrations greater than 5%w/w so traditional carrier-based DPI systems are dose limited. It is thought that the challenge of developing a 'high dose' dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation routinely requires the application of advanced manufacturing techniques such as spray drying to formulate powder blends.Unfortunately, such technologies often require that the API be subjected to less than ideal processing conditions and are disproportionately expensive to implement. A relatively new and benign dry powder blending technology has been employed in this work to attempt to extend the dosing range of traditionalDPIsmore simply. At the heart of this technology, individual particles are dispersed by centrifugal force and fluidised by an air-blade which does not damage the input materials. A model API, micronised fluticasone propionate (FP), was processed with inhalation grade lactose at concentrations of up to 25%w/w. At all concentrations studied, the new technique fully removed all agglomerates of the API. At FP concentrations above 5%w/w, multilayers of fine particles were formed at the surface of the carrier particles. At all concentrations the formulations were found to produce homogeneous powder blends with excellent content uniformity, more than adequate for requirements of a high dose DPI formulation. Furthermore, the aerodynamic particle size distributions determined from each of the blends became increasingly fine as the FP concentration was increased. Scanning electron micrographs showed that multilayer structures formed at high concentration on the lactose surface have an open porous nature. It is reasonable to hypothesise that it is the nature of the structure of the surface coating that determines the respirable dose performance of the blend.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Dynamic change of hygroscopic Spiriva Respimat aerosol passing through a cascade impactor: Single particle measurements and a deposition simulation
Authors:N.A. GreenA. HaddrellJ. ReidW. GanleyR. Price
Absract:Cascade impactors are often used to measure the deposition fraction of an ensemble of particles across a range of stages all varying in size. However, particle sizes can often be dynamic during aerosolisation and inhalation, behaviour that cannot be resolved by impactors, but which may significantly impact on the recorded deposited fractions in different stages. The dynamic processes experienced by particles on inhalation into the humid lungs, where the relative humidity often exceeds 99.5%, can significantly change particle size distributions, with particles growing by water condensation. There are currently three main delivery devices used for administering aerosolised drugs to the lung, MDIs, DPIs and nebulisers. Respimat® is a new type of inhaler used for respiratory drugs and, with a precisely engineered nozzle, it generates a soft mist containing a high fine particle fraction of liquid aerosol. In these measurements, a cascade impactor was used to measure the fractionated particle masses of Spiriva Respimat® (API tiotropium bromide aerosol) at various sampling RHs, with the aerosol generated initially at high water content. Measurements are compared with simulations that account for the dynamics of size change during the passage of the aerosol through the cascade impactor, responding to the different sampling RHs. The dynamics are based on measurements of the individual droplet evaporation and condensation kinetics of the solution in Spiriva Respimat® under the same RH conditions. This cascade impactor model allows the hygroscopic properties of the substance to be applied to the dynamics as a function of time, sampling RH and the initial particle size distribution. The results of the cascade impactor simulations show good agreement with experimental data. Such an approach could be used for a range of APIs and formulations delivered by Respimat®, both in aqueous and ethanolic solutions.

pui:630352053
Title:L-CSA, a liposomal formulation of cyclosporine a, demonstrates therapeutic potential for bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS)
Authors:N.R. HenigK. HoffmannO. DenkG. Boerner
Absract:Introduction: While lung transplantation is a viable treatment for end stage lung disease, long term allograft viability remains a challenge to long term survival. From 2011 to 2013, a study of a novel formulation of liposomal cyclosporine A (L-CsA) given via inhalation for the prevention of BOS was conducted and prematurely terminated due to financial reasons. Post-hoc analysis of the study data suggests that L-CsA has potential therapeutic benefit. Methods: A post-hoc analysis of a study of L-CsA for the prevention of BOS in lung transplant patients was conducted. The original study data was collected from 2011 to 2013 at 11 European lung transplant sites. In this post-hoc analysis, the predefined endpoint of development of BOS Stage 1 was changed to BOS 0-p in the composite endpoint “BOS-free survival” given the shortened observation period of the study. Results: Of the planned 180 subjects, 130 were enrolled. The mean observation time was 13.2 mos. There was no separation of cohorts in the full data set analysis. When stratified by single vs double lung transplant, single lung transplant patients who received L-CsA showed markedly decreased Kaplan-Meier estimation of developing BOS 0-p. Discussion: Prevention studies require larger sample size and sufficient operational lead time to demonstrate preventive benefit of an investigational agent. This post-hoc analysis of a study of LCsA to prevent BOS demonstrates a therapeutic potential in SLT recipients. The effect was seen only in the SLT population, which is consistent with earlier diagnosis of BOS following SLT. Phase 3 studies of L-CsA for the treatment of BOS will be conducted.

doi:10.1208/s12249-018-1280-0
Title:Spray-Dried PulmoSphere™ Formulations for Inhalation Comprising Crystalline Drug Particles
Authors:J.G. WeersD.P. MillerT.E. Tarara
Absract:Over the past 20 years, solution-based spray dried powders have transformed inhaled product development, enabling aerosol delivery of a wider variety of molecules as dry powders. These include inhaled proteins for systemic action (e.g., Exubera®) and high-dose inhaled antibiotics (e.g., TOBI® Podhaler™). Although engineered particles provide several key advantages over traditional powder processing technologies (e.g., spheronized particles and lactose blends), the physicochemical stability of the amorphous drug present in these formulations brings along its own unique set of constraints. To this end, a number of approaches have been developed to maintain the crystallinity of drugs throughout the spray drying process. One approach is to spray dry suspensions of micronized drug(s) from a liquid feed. In this method, minimization of drug particle dissolution in the liquid feed is critical, as dissolved drug is converted into amorphous domains in the spray-dried drug product. The review explores multiple formulation and engineering strategies for decreasing drug dissolution independent of the physicochemical properties of the drug(s). Strategies to minimize particle dissolution include spray blending of particles of different compositions, formation of respirable agglomerates of micronized drug with small porous carrier particles, and use of common ions. The formulations extend the range of doses that can be delivered with a portable inhaler from about 100 ng to 100 mg. The spray-dried particles exhibit significant advantages in terms of lung targeting and dose consistency relative to conventional lactose blends, while still maintaining the crystallinity of drug(s) in the formulated drug product.

doi:10.1002/(SICI)1099-0496(200005)29:5<366::AID-PPUL5>3.0.CO;2-L
Title:Inhaled tobramycin and bronchial hyperactivity in cystic fibrosis
Authors:M. RamagopalL.C. Lands
Absract:The use of inhaled tobramycin for prophylaxis and treatment of respiratory symptoms in cystic fibrosis (OF) is now widespread. There have been concerns that inhaling the intravenous (I.V.) formulation of tobramycin causes bronchoconstriction. Previous studies using this formulation have either not specified the nebulizing equipment, or studied older, more severely affected patients. This study investigated the incidence of bronchoconstriction with tobramycin inhalation in children with mild to moderate CF. We studied 26 patients between the ages of 7 and 17 years, with mild to moderate OF (20 female). Prior to being placed on prolonged inhaled tobramycin therapy, they underwent a 'tobramycin challenge,' FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was measured pre and post challenge. For the test, standard I.V. solution (80 mg/2 mL) diluted with 2 mL of normal saline was nebulized, using the Hudson (Temecula, CA) RCI Updraft II nebulizer. The nebulization lasted 2 min. There was a 3-min 'quiet period,' following which FEV, was measured. A decrease in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end by at least 10% post-tobramycin inhalation was considered to be a positive test. Results were analyzed using the Pearson Chi-square test. Five of 26 (19%) had a positive reaction to tobramycin. Sixteen of 26 (61.5%) were using salbutamol on a daily basis at the time of testing but not for 48 hr before the challenge, and 16 of 26 (61.5%) had a pre-tobramycin FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of <80%. Neither an FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of <80% (P = 0.93) nor regular use of salbutamol (P = 0.34) were associated with a positive tobramycin challenge. This study suggests that, while bronchoconstriction does occur, many patients do not exhibit bronchoconstriction in response to the standard I.V. preparation and, as prior work suggests, this may be reduced further by pretreatment with salbutamol. (C) 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.msec.2019.02.009
Title:A multilayer hollow nanocarrier for pulmonary co-drug delivery of methotrexate and doxorubicin in the form of dry powder inhalation formulation
Authors:S. NozohouriR. SalehiS. GhanbarzadehK. AdibkiaH. Hamishehkar
Absract:Lung cancer is the number one cause of cancer deaths in the global population and remains difficult to treat mainly because of the absence of targeted drug delivery stages and restrictions related with delivery of drugs to deep lung tissues. The aim of the present study was to develop a noninvasive, patient-convenient formulation for the targeted delivery of chemotherapeutics to cancer cells located in the deep lung tissue. A PEGylated paramagnetic hollow-nanosphere was fabricated, fully characterized and used as a nanocarrier for pulmonary co-delivery of Doxorubicin (DOX) and Methotrexate (MTX). In first step, magnetic-silica nanoparticles were synthesized and then coated with amino/acrylate groups and derivatized with polyethylene glycol (PEG). Finally, silica was removed to provide hollow structured nanoparticles. The biocompatibility of blank carriers and the efficiency of MTX-DOX-loaded carriers were also approved by MTT assay and DAPI staining. The aerosolization performance of nanoparticles embedded microspheres were assessed by next generation impactor. The almost natural zeta potential and obvious decrease in silica content observed by EDX and removal of intense silica characteristic peak at FTIR analyses approved the successful removal of silica layer and preparation of hollow-nanospheres. The successful PEGylation of multilayer magnetic hollow-nanospheres catalyzed by boric acid was confirmed by presence of amide groups in FTIR spectra. The developed polymeric nanoparticle showed quite appropriate loading capacity for both DOX and MTX (48%) because of designing adequate negatively and positively charged sites for both drugs. The cytotoxicity assays proved the safety of blank nanoparticles and efficacy of drugs-loaded nanoparticles on lung cancer A549 cell lines. The developed dry powder inhalation formulation of nanoparticles showed appropriate aerosolization performance (fine particle fraction around 22%). It was concluded that these outcomes may open the potentials for efficient pulmonary co-delivery of MTX and DOX to the carcinogenic tissues.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2018.1492
Title:Estimation of Fraction Dissolved after Intratracheal Delivery of a Potent Janus Kinase Inhibitor, iJAK-001, with Low Solubility in Rat and Sheep: Impact of Preclinical PKPD on Inhaled Human Dose Projection
Authors:M. CanigaH. YuH.-H. LeeM. WangD. WitterM. SalmonP.W. Fan
Absract:Background: A highly potent pan-Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor with excellent kinome selectivity was developed for topical delivery to treat severe asthma. This poorly soluble drug discovery candidate, iJAK-001, is expected to exhibit long duration of JAK/STAT pathway inhibition at low doses in asthmatics because of depot effect after dry powder inhalation. Human dose projection for inhaled molecules with low aqueous solubility remains to be a daunting challenge because of several limitations: (1) bioanalytical measurement of dissolved fraction after inhalation of solid particles is uncertain; (2) distribution of these particles is not homogenous in the lung; (3) in vitro solubility measurements to estimate fraction dissolved may not be a reflection of local surface lung concentration; (4) lack of a surrogate biomarker of lung target engagement, and (5) invasive procedure needed to sample human lung tissue in the clinic. Methods: We leveraged in silico, in vitro, and in vivo tools preclinically and found significant differences in lung to plasma partition ratio when iJAK-001 was given intravenously (IV) or intratracheally in a solution-based formulation versus that in suspension, as well as pharmacodynamic response in preclinical asthma models when delivered systemically via IV infusion versus inhaled. Results and Conclusion: The combined results from above suggest that caution must be exercised using either lung or plasma exposure for human dose projection. Instead, using the local inhibitor concentration estimate based on delivery efficiency, dose, fraction absorbed, and rate of absorption normalized by lung (cardiac) blood flow may be more appropriate for dose projection.

doi:10.1023/A:1016559707084
Title:Evaluation of the AERx pulmonary delivery system for systemic delivery of a poorly soluble selective D-1 agonist, ABT-431
Authors:F.W. OkumuR.-Y. LeeJ.D. BlanchardA. QueiroloC.M. WoodsP.M. LloydJ. OkikawaI. GondaS.J. FarrR. RubsamenA.L. AdjeiR.J. Bertz
Absract:Purpose. ABT-431 is a chemically stable, poorly soluble prodrug that rapidly converts in vivo to A-86929, a selective dopamine D-1 receptor agonist. This study was designed to evaluate the ability of the AERx™ pulmonary delivery system to deliver ABT-431 to the systemic circulation via the lung. Methods. A 60% ethanol formulation of 50 mg/mL ABT-431 was used to prepare unit dosage forms containing 40 μL of formulation. The AERx system was used to generate a fine aerosol bolus from each unit dose that was collected either onto a filter assembly to chemically assay for the emitted dose or in an Andersen cascade impactor for particle size analysis. Plasma samples were obtained for pharmacokinetic analysis after pulmonary delivery and IV dosing of ABT-431 to nine healthy male volunteers. Doses from the AERx system were delivered as a bolus inhalation(s) (1, 2, 4, and 8 mg) and intravenous infusions were given over 1hr (5 mg). Pharmacokinetic parameters of A-86929 were estimated using noncompartmental analysis. Results. The emitted dose was 1.02 mg (%RSD = 11.0, n = 48). The mass median aerodynamic diameter of the aerosol was 2.9 ± 0.1 μm with a geometric standard deviation of 1.3 ± 0.1 (n = 15). T@sub_beginmax@sub_end (mean ± SD) after inhalation ranged from 0.9 ± 0.6 to 11.5 ± 2.5. The mean absolute pulmonary bioavailibility (as A-86929) based on emitted dose ranged from 81.9% to 107.4%. Conclusions. This study demonstrated that the AERx pulmonary delivery system is capable of reproducibly generating fine nearly monodisperse aerosols of a small organic molecule. Aerosol inhalation utilizing the AERx pulmonary delivery system may be an efficient means for systemic delivery of small organic molecules such as ABT-431.

doi:10.1007/s00210-020-01828-y
Title:A 6-month systems toxicology inhalation study in ApoE-'-mice demonstrates preserved bone integrity after e-vapor products aerosol exposure relative to cigarette smoke exposure
Authors:M.K. ReumannB. TitzW. WengR.H. Aspera-WerzE.T. WongJ. SzostakP. LeroyW.T. TanA. KuczajF. SpringerA. BadkeP. AugatL. Quentanilla-FendK.M. LeeM.C. PeitschJ. HoengA.K. Nussler
Absract:Introduction: Cigarette smoking is one of the leading preventable risk factors for human health. Alternative nicotine-containing inhalable products, such as e-cigarettes, can effectively support tobacco harm reduction approaches. However, there are limited comparative data on the effects of electronic vapor (e-vapor) aerosols and cigarette smoke (CS) on the bone. Here, we report the effect of e-vapor products' aerosols and CS on bone morphology, structure, and strength in a 6-month inhalation study. Materials and Methods: Eight-week-old ApoE-/-mice were exposed to aerosols from three different e-vapor products formulations(1) CARRIER (propylene glycol and vegetable glycerol), (2) BASE (CARRIER and nicotine), or (3) TEST (BASE and flavor) or to CS from 3R4F reference cigarettes for 6 months, at matched nicotine concentrations (35 μg/L) (N = 10). Tibiae were analyzed by uCT imaging, the 3-point bending test, and histological analysis. Results: CS caused a significant decrease in cortical bone volume fraction and mean/density cortical bone volume (BV) and total volume (TV) relative to e-vapor products' aerosols. Additionally, CS exposure caused a decrease in ultimate load and stiffness of the tibia. In contrast, bone structure and biomechanical analysis revealed no significant differences in response to e-vapor products' aerosol and sham exposure. There was no significant difference in body weight or tibia bone weight or length among the groups. Conclusion: In conclusion, CS significantly compromised bone structure and strength in the ApoE-/-mouse model. In contrast, none of the e-vapor products' aerosols had detrimental effects on the biomechanical or structural properties of bone after a 6-month inhalation exposure.

doi:10.1007/s40261-013-0082-0
Title:Inhalation of a dry powder ciprofloxacin formulation in healthy subjects: A phase i study
Authors:H. StassJ. NagelschmitzS. WillmannH. DelesenA. GuptaS. Baumann
Absract:Background: Oral and intravenous formulations of ciprofloxacin have established efficacy and safety profiles in respiratory infections. A dry powder for inhalation (DPI) that uses Novartis' PulmoSphere™ technology has been developed to deliver high concentrations of ciprofloxacin to the lung with low systemic exposure using a portable and convenient passive dry powder inhaler (Novartis' T-326 inhaler). Objectives: The primary objective was to investigate the safety and tolerability of ciprofloxacin DPI in healthy male subjects, with a secondary objective to investigate the pharmacokinetics of ciprofloxacin after ciprofloxacin DPI administration. Methods: This was a phase I, single-dose, single-site, randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study conducted in the hospital setting. Subjects were followed up for safety for approximately 2 weeks. Six healthy male subjects, aged 27-42 years with no history of pulmonary disease, repeated bronchitis or respiratory allergies were enrolled. In randomized order and separated by a 1-week washout period, subjects inhaled a single dose of ciprofloxacin DPI 32.5 mg or placebo from the T-326 inhaler. Primary safety parameters included vital signs, electrocardiogram, laboratory tests, adverse events and lung function (total specific resistance, thoracic gas volume and forced expiratory volume in 1 s). Plasma concentration-time data were used to calculate pharmacokinetic parameters. Results: Ciprofloxacin DPI was well tolerated with no clinically relevant adverse effects on lung function. Estimates of lung deposition derived from physiology-based pharmacokinetic modelling suggest that approximately 40 % of the total dose of ciprofloxacin DPI reached the trachea/bronchi and alveolar space. Systemic ciprofloxacin was detected soon after inhalation [peak concentration in plasma (C @sub_beginmax@sub_end) 56.42 μg/L, median time to C @sub_beginmax@sub_end 0.625 h], but total systemic exposure was minimal (area under the plasma concentration-time curve 354.4 μg·h/L). Terminal elimination half-life (9.5 h), apparent total clearance from plasma after non-intravenous administration (91.7 L/h) and apparent volume of distribution (1,262 L) data suggest that elimination from the respiratory tract was prolonged. Conclusions: In healthy subjects, ciprofloxacin DPI was well tolerated, delivered ciprofloxacin to the lungs and resulted in minimal systemic exposure, allowing further investigation of its clinical use for the management of specific, chronic infections in pulmonary diseases. © 2013 The Author(s).

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Impact of layer height on the quality of DPI prototypes prepared by masked stereolithography 3d printing
Authors:K. BerkenfeldP. BebernikJ. FreidelR. GroßC. SchulteA. SuleS. SuleA. Lamprecht
Absract:The delivery of therapeutic aerosols via dry powder inhalation devices (DPI) is used for drug application via the lungs and the performance of the device used is an integral part of the performance of a given product. Typically, DPIs are manufactured through injection molding, but in DPI development, the use of rapid prototyping techniques is desirable. Recently, masked stereolithography (MSLA) 3D printing has become very affordable, making this technique an excellent candidate for rapid prototyping in this context. The aim of this study was to assess the applicability of MSLA 3D printing for DPI prototyping. A 3D representation of a commercial DPI (RS01 equivalent, DPI@sub_beginIM@sub_end) was obtained by imaging the device with a micro computertomographic system. Based on this, a printable 3D model was generated and 3D printed on a Prusa SL1 using Prusa tough resin at three different layer heights (LH) i.e. 25 (DPI@sub_begin3D@sub_end25), 50 (DPI@sub_begin3D@sub_end50), and 100 (DPI@sub_begin3D@sub_end100) μm. All models were compared by full resolution aerosol analysis using the Next Generation Impactor, analyzing a spray dried formulation of rifampicin. Cascade impactor analyses showed relative depositions in the DPI of 0.058 ± 0.006, 0.036 ± 0.003, 0.049 ± 0.003, and 0.066 ± 0.008 and fine particle fractions (cumulative powder mass <5 μm) of 44.5 ± 3.0%, 48.0 ± 2.7%, 48.4 ± 2.5%, and 37.5 ± 3.4% for the DPIIM, DPI3D25, DPI3D50, and DPI3D100, respectively. Differences in deposition and performance can be attributed to the different accuracies of the models. MSLA 3D printing was found to be a viable option for rapid prototyping of DPI devices, if suitable printing parameters (i.e. LH) are selected.

doi:10.5372/1905-7415.0504.062
Title:Pharmacodynamics of dry powder formulations of salbutamol for delivery by inhalation
Authors:N. SukasameN. NimnooT. SuwandechaT. Srichana
Absract:Background: Salbutamol is a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-selective adrenoceptor agonist used as a bronchodilator. Delivery by inhalation has many advantages over oral dosage for the treatment of asthma. It offers rapid onset of action with low systemic side effects. Objective: Evaluate the relationship of in vitro particle size characteristics and pharmacodynamics of formulations of inhaled salbutamol dry powder. Methods: Three formulations contained micronized salbutamol and a lactose carrier with different size ranges (40- 80, 20-40, and 10-20 μm for formulations 1, 2, and 3, respectively). Following formulation of the drug, resultant powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy and the aerosolization performance determined using an Andersen Cascade Impactor analysis. A high-performance liquid chromatography method was used for measuring the salbutamol drug content. The in vivo pharmacodynamics of the formulations was monitored in 12 healthy and 12 asthmatic volunteers. Results: The percentage of the fine particle fractions (FPF) for formulations 1, 2, and 3 were 24.87±0.52%, 33.82±3.80%, and 41.50±2.86%, respectively. The mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMAD) were around 3 μm for all formulations. The pharmacodynamic parameters, forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and mid expiratory flow (FEF@sub_begin25-75@sub_end), were indices for evaluation of the bioavailability of the bronchodilatory drug. All formulations improved the FEF@sub_begin25-75@sub_end value in asthmatics, while FVC and FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end were not altered. Conclusion: The formulations of salbutamol dry powder aerosols with a fine lactose carrier produced a high deposition in the lower regions of the respiratory tract. Although the FEF@sub_begin25-75@sub_end value in asthmatics was improved, the value did not correlate well with the FPF of the salbutamol dry powder.

doi:10.1586/17434440.6.2.147
Title:Oral inhalation therapy: Meeting the challenge of developing more patient-appropriate devices
Authors:J.P. MitchellM.W. Nagel
Absract:Although oral inhalers have been mass produced for more than 50 years, there is a large body of literature in which evidence has been provided that patients either misuse their inhalers inadvertently or deliberately, thereby reducing their intended efficacy or, in the worst cases, rendering them altogether ineffective. In general, inhalers are becoming increasingly complicated with the incorporation of add-on devices, miniaturized electronics and ever more complex mechanical systems that aid aerosol delivery to the lower respiratory tract and, at the same time provide user feedback. However, these benefits often come at a significant cost, and there are signs that increasing attention will need to be given to the cost-benefit equation in the future. This review explores the development of pressurized metered-dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and devices for liquid-droplet dispersal and inhalation from the perspective of the patient, by focusing on aspects that improve user interaction. These include designed-in features, such as breath-enhanced or breath-actuated operation that interact with the breathing pattern of the user, as well as more direct feedback aids that confirm, to the patient or healthcare provider that the dose has been delivered and that the patient has inhaled. © 2009 Expert Reviews Ltd.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13111878
Title:Hyaluronic acid hydrogels for controlled pulmonary drug delivery—a particle engineering approach
Authors:D. NikjooI. van der ZwaanM. BrüllsU. TehlerG. Frenning
Absract:Hydrogels warrant attention as a potential material for use in sustained pulmonary drug delivery due to their swelling and mucoadhesive features. Herein, hyaluronic acid (HA) is considered a promising material due to its therapeutic potential, the effect on lung inflammation, and possible utility as an excipient or drug carrier. In this study, the feasibility of using HA hydrogels (without a model drug) to engineer inhalation powders for controlled pulmonary drug delivery was assessed. A combination of chemical crosslinking and spray-drying was proposed as a novel methodology for the preparation of inhalation powders. Different crosslinkers (urea; UR and glutaraldehyde; GA) were exploited in the hydrogel formulation and the obtained powders were subjected to extensive characterization. Compositional analysis of the powders indicated a crosslinked structure of the hydrogels with sufficient thermal stability to withstand spray drying. The obtained microparticles presented a spherical shape with mean diameter particle sizes from 2.3 ± 1.1 to 3.2 ± 2.9 μm. Microparticles formed from HA crosslinked with GA exhibited a reasonable aerosolization performance (fine particle fraction estimated as 28 ± 2%), whereas lower values were obtained for the UR-based formulation. Likewise, swelling and stability in water were larger for GA than for UR, for which the results were very similar to those obtained for native (not crosslinked) HA. In conclusion, microparticles could successfully be produced from crosslinked HA, and the ones crosslinked by GA exhibited superior performance in terms of aerosolization and swelling.

doi:10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.2018024397
Title:Evaluation of nanocarrier-based dry powder formulations for inhalation with special reference to anti-tuberculosis drugs
Authors:T.S. PatilA. DeshpandeP. ShendeS. DeshpandeR. Gaud
Absract:Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) is a leading cause of death worldwide and is caused by the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTb). As treatment for TB, dry powders for inhalation (DPIs) are considered stable compared with nebulizers and metered dose inhalers and are suitable for high-dose formulations. Although extensive research has been done over the last two to three decades on nanocarrier-based DPIs for targeting MTb infection, none of the anti-TB DPI formulations have reached the market. Challenges in the proper assessment of nanocarrier-based DPIs due to the complexity of lungs is one of the reasons. In this review, the details of in vitro evaluation parameters of nanocarriers and nanocarrier-based DPIs along with their need and basic principles are discussed. Further, the thorough in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo pharmacological evaluations, together with their procedures wherever required, are covered. The different evaluation parameters during process development, release specifications, and stability studies suggested by U.S. Food and Drug Administration Center for Drug Evaluation and Research to apply for new drug applications and abbreviated new drug applications of DPIs are also discussed. Lastly, the evaluation parameters for DPIs provided in European, United States, British, and Indian pharmacopeias are summarized.

doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2015-4405
Title:Tumor-targeted nanotherapeutics
Authors:O.B. GarbuzenkoA. KuzmovJ.E. SapiezynskiO. TaratulaV. ShahM. ZhangR. SavlaS. JohnL. Rodriguez-RodriguezT. Minko
Absract:Directing anticancer agents specifically to tumors and/or cancer cells by targeting specific extracellular receptors fulfills the following three most important tasks: (1) preventing or at least substantially limiting adverse side effects on healthy tissues, (2) enhancing drug internalization by cancer cells, and (3) overcoming (at least in part) resistance mechanisms that are based on the active efflux of exogenous drugs from cancer cells We developed several tumor-targeted nanoscale-based formulations: various nanocarriers (liposomes, lipid nanoparticles, dendrimers, polymers, quantum dots, mesoporous silica and supermagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles); different anticancer drugs (doxorubicin, paclitaxel, camptothecin, and cisplatin); suppressors of cellular drug resistance and tumor grows (antisense oligonucleotides or siRNA targeted to BCL2, MDR1, MRP1, HIF1A, CD44 mRNA); and tumor-targeting agent - luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) The proposed nanotherapeutics were tested in vitro and in vivo using established lung and ovarian cancer cell lines and highly metastatic cancer cells isolated from malignant intraperitoneal ascites from patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma. These cells were used to initiate orthotopic models of lung and ovarian cancers in nude mice that were often accompanied by the development of metastases. Tumor-targeted nanoscale-based drug formulations were delivered intravenously and intraperitoneally (for ovarian cancer) or intravenously and by inhalation (for lung cancer). Treatment with the developed therapeutics led to the suppression of targeted proteins, efficient induction of cell death, effective tumor shrinkage, prevention the development of metastases and limitation of adverse side effects.

doi:10.1128/AAC.01744-10
Title:Pharmacokinetics and safety of MP-376 (levofloxacin inhalation solution) in cystic fibrosis subjects
Authors:D.E. GellerP.A. FlumeD.C. GriffithE. MorganD. WhiteJ.S. LoutitM.N. Dudley
Absract:The pharmacokinetics and tolerability of nebulized MP-376 (levofloxacin inhalation solution [Aeroquin]) were determined in cystic fibrosis (CF) subjects. Ten CF subjects received single 180-mg doses of two formulations of MP-376, followed by a multiple-dose phase of 240 mg once daily for 7 days. Serum and expectorated-sputum samples were assayed for levofloxacin content. Safety was evaluated following the single- and multiple-dose study phases. Nebulized MP-376 produced high concentrations of levofloxacin in sputum. The mean maximum plasma concentration (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) ranged between 2,563 and 2,932 mg/liter for 180-mg doses of the 50- and 100-mg/ml formulations, respectively. After 7 days of dosing, the mean C@sub_beginmax@sub_end for the 240-mg dose was 4,691 mg/liter. The mean serum levofloxacin C@sub_beginmax@sub_end ranged between 0.95 and 1.28 for the 180-mg doses and was 1.71 for the 240-mg dose. MP-376 was well tolerated. Nebulized MP-376 produces high sputum and low serum levofloxacin concentrations. The pharmacokinetics, safety, and tolerability were similar for the two formulations. MP-376 240 mg (100 mg/ml) is being advanced into late-stage clinical development. Copyright © 2011, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

doi:10.1002/jps.21653
Title:Preparation and evaluation of controlled release microparticles for respiratory protein therapy
Authors:R.O. SalamaD. TrainiH.-K. ChanA. SungA.J. AmmitP.M. Young
Absract:A series of microparticle formulations, designed for controlled release pulmonary therapy, were evaluated in terms of their physical properties, aerosol performance, lung epithelial cell toxicity, and controlled release profile. A protein, bovine serum albumin (BSA) was chosen as a model macromolecule active ingredient which was coprocessed, using spray drying, with varying concentrations of the release modifier, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA). The spray dried microparticles were tested for their physico-chemical characteristics (e.g., size distribution, morphology and density), in vitro aerosolisation performance using a 5-stage Marple Miller Impactor (MMI) and in vitro release profiles by a custom-built diffusion cell (in 100 mL phosphate buffer pH 7.4). The toxicity of PVA on lung epithelial cells was investigated using a human alveolar basal epithelium A549 cell line. Analysis of the particle size data indicated that all the spray dried BSA/PVA samples had similar size distributions with a median particle diameter (d@sub_begin0.5@sub_end) across all samples of 2.79±0.11 mm. All formulations had relatively good aerosolisation performance when compared to conventional dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations although increasing PVA percentage had a negative effect on the aerosol performance in vitro. Analysis of the difference and similarity factors for the release profiles indicated significant differences with respect to PVA concentration. Furthermore, cell toxicity analysis indicated PVA to have limited effect on cell viability after 24 h exposure. A series of protein-based inhalation formulations have been developed and tested, and shown to be suitable for controlled release in the respiratory tract. © 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1161/circ.140.suppl_1.9650
Title:Enhanced efficiency of atrial fibrillation conversion to sinus rhythm by inhaled flecainide hpbcd formulation revealed by concentration-time area analysis
Authors:G.C. PedreiraS.A. MedeirosF.T. SilvaA. BortolottoB.A. SilvaA. MarumB. NearingP. MadhavapeddiM. HurreyC. SchulerL. BelardinelliR. Verrier
Absract:Introduction: Conversion of atrial fibrillation (AF) to normal sinus rhythm (NSR) requires rapid, optimally dosed delivery of the antiarrhythmic agent. A handheld breath-activated nebulizer has been used to deliver flecainide via oral inhalation in the clinic; however, the optimal formulation has not been determined. Hypothesis: Use of solubility-enhancing cyclodextrin excipient in the formulation will enhance the efficiency of flecainide to convert AF to NSR. Methods: In 11 anesthetized Yorkshire pigs, intrapericardial injection of acetylcholine followed by burst pacing was used to induce AF reproducibly. We compared historical data from animals given a traditional flecainide acetate formulation (N=6) with data obtained in 5 pigs given a novel preparation of flecainide acetate using cyclodextrin as the excipient (flecainide HPβCD) to increase aqueous solubility of the drug. Both solutions were instilled intratracheally at 2 min following AF initiation. The pharmacokinetic parameter measured was the concentration-time area (AUC) from time 0 (drug instillation) to time of AF conversion. Results: The HPβCD and acetate solutions of flecainide converted AF to NSR in all animals at 2.5±0.4 and 5.7±1.3 min (p=0.05, mean ± SEM), respectively. The AUC at the time of conversion following intratracheal instillation of flecainide HPβCD (1.0 mg/kg) was 1,759±382 ng/ml/min and of flecainide acetate (0.75 mg/kg) was 4,197±756 ng/ml/min (∗p=0.03) (Figure). Thus, while the dose of flecainide in the acetate formulation was 25% lower than in the HPβCD formulation, the time required to terminate AF (225%) and the AUC (239%) for flecainide acetate were double. Conclusions: The HPβCD formulation more rapidly converted AF to NSR at a smaller AUC than the conventional flecainide acetate preparation. This finding suggests that the solubility enhancement by the cyclodextrin excipient could be advantageous in an oral inhalation solution to restore NSR in patients with AF.

doi:10.2174/1381612824666180518080948
Title:Crystal engineering: Upcoming paradigm for efficacious pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:P.P. DesaiS.S. MaparaV.B. Patravale
Absract:Background and objective: Pulmonary drug delivery has transformed over a past few decades from being a platform for local pulmonary disease treatment to systemic drug delivery opportunities. In case of pulmonary delivery systems, particle properties are critical as they affect inhalation efficacy, pulmonary deposition, drug delivery and overall performance. With this in view, particle engineering has emerged as an advanced science that helps in designing of efficacious pulmonary delivery systems. Among various particle engineering branches, crystal engineering is being extensively explored as it provides an opportunity to optimize particles at morphological, physicochemical and molecular levels which are essential to understand the role of crystal engineering in pulmonary drug delivery. Methods: A thorough literature survey in the field of crystal engineering approaches explored for pulmonary drug delivery was conducted and the collected data was meticulously studied and summarized. Results: In the review, pulmonary system is discussed with respect to various sites for drug deposition in respiratory tract, mechanism of drug deposition and clearance. Further, critical crystal parameters are discussed in-depth and various crystal engineering methods are summarized with emphasis on their impact on pulmonary delivery. Also, inhalation devices are overviewed to understand their performance in relation to crystal based pulmonary formulations. Conclusion: The review enabled a detailed insight on crystal engineering approaches for design of pulmonary delivery systems.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Engineering of inhalable microparticles containing terbinafine for management of pulmonary fungal infections
Authors:K. AlmansourI.M. AlfagihT.J. AlmutairiR.F. AlshammariR. AliT.A. HagbaniM.M.A. Elsayed
Absract:Terbinafine is a broad-spectrum antifungal agent with potential therapeutic value in management of pulmonary aspergillosis. The aim of this work was to engineer a dry powder inhalation formulation of terbinafine hydrochloride by nano spray drying. A factorial experimental design was constructed to study factors influencing characteristics of formulations prepared by nano spray drying. The experimental design involved two excipients (mannitol and lactose), different spray solvents (hydroethanolic and aqueous), different spray nozzles, and different drying gas inlet temperatures. The nano spray drying products were characterized mainly in terms of the yield, the crystallinity using differential scanning calorimetry, the disintegration/dissolution behaviour in a bronchial/alveolar fluid surrogate, and the aerodynamic performance using a Next Generation Impactor with Cyclohaler® as an inhalation device at 100 L/min. Factors influencing characteristics of nano spray drying products were identified. The influence of the spray solvent was most interesting: a spray solvent composed of 50.5 % w/w ethanol in water was found, compared to water, to result in smaller particles with up to 3.5-fold higher respirability, i.e. higher fine particle fractions. The influence is attributed to the dependence of the size of spray droplets generated by the vibrating-mesh atomizer on the spray solution viscosity. The formulations exhibited partial (< 40 %) drug dissolution within 2 minutes of dispersion in a bronchial/alveolar fluid surrogate. Undissolved drug particles were smaller than 160 nm in diameter, suggesting they have potential to avoid clearance by alveolar macrophages and mucociliary escalation and to thus provide prolonged local action.

doi:10.3390/ijms22094783
Title:Repurposing bedaquiline for effective non-small cell lung cancer (Nsclc) therapy as inhalable cyclodextrin-based molecular inclusion complexes
Authors:V. ParvathaneniR.S. ElbatanonyM. GoyalT. ChavanN. VegaS. KolluruA. MuthV. GuptaN.K. Kunda
Absract:There is growing evidence that repurposed drugs demonstrate excellent efficacy against many cancers, while facilitating accelerated drug development process. In this study, bedaquiline (BDQ), an FDA approved anti-mycobacterial agent, was repurposed and an inhalable cyclodextrin complex formulation was developed to explore its anti-cancer activity in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). A sulfobutyl ether derivative of β-cyclodextrin (SBE-β-CD) was selected based on phase solubility studies and molecular modeling to prepare an inclusion complex of BDQ and cyclodextrin. Aqueous solubility of BDQ was increased by 2.8 × 10@sup_begin3@sup_end-fold after complexation with SBE-β-CD, as compared to its intrinsic solubility. Solid-state characterization studies confirmed the successful incorporation of BDQ in the SBE-β-CD cavity. In vitro lung deposition study results demonstrated excellent inhalable properties (mass median aerodynamic diameter: 2.9 ± 0.6 µm (<5 µm) and fine particle fraction: 83.3 ± 3.8%) of BDQ-CD complex. Accelerated stability studies showed BDQ-CD complex to be stable up to 3 weeks. From cytotoxicity studies, a slight enhancement in the anti-cancer efficacy was observed with BDQ-cyclodextrin complex, compared to BDQ alone in H1299 cell line. The IC@sub_begin50@sub_end values for BDQ and BDQ-CD complex were found to be ~40 µM in case of H1299 cell line at 72 h, whereas BDQ/BDQ-CD were not found to be cytotoxic up to concentrations of 50 µM in A549 cell line. Taken together, BDQ-CD complex offers a promising inhalation strategy with efficient lung deposition and cytotoxicity for NSCLC treatment.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.01.021
Title:Effect of carrier morphology and surface characteristics on the development of respirable PLGA microcapsules for sustained-release pulmonary delivery of insulin
Authors:H. HamishehkarJ. EmamiA.R. NajafabadiK. GilaniM. MinaiyanH. MahdaviA. Nokhodchi
Absract:The effect of morphology and surface characteristics of carriers were investigated for development of dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation of insulin-loaded poly (d,l-lactic-co-glycolic acid) microcapsules for sustained-release pulmonary delivery of insulin. Microcapsule/carrier powder mixtures were prepared consisting of insulin-loaded PLGA microcapsules and sorbitol or mannitol as the carriers with various particle surface morphologies prepared by spray-drying and freeze-drying techniques. Powders were assessed by particle size analyzer, scanning electron microscopy, surface area analyzer, atomic force microscopy, helium pycnometer, X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetery, bulk and tapped densitometers. Aerosol dispersion of microcapsules was examined by a twin impinger using Spinhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end device. The flowability results showed that the lowest (27.51 ± 2.24%) and the highest (48.53 ± 3.36%) Carr's indices were obtained for the samples containing sieved mannitol and spray-dried mannitol, respectively. The in vitro inhalation properties of the powder mixture prepared using various carrier shape and surface morphology were different, suggesting that the separation of microcapsules from carrier was a determining step to improve inhalation properties of DPIs. The results showed that the highest fine particle fraction (18.3 ± 1.65%) and fine particle dose (62.22 ± 3.74 μg) were obtained for the microcapsules formulated with sieved mannitol and these values were the lowest when the sieved mannitol was replaced by sieved sorbitol (10.5 ± 0.86% and 35.70 ± 2.51 μg). It was concluded that optimization of surface roughness is a critical parameter in development of DPIs. It also suggested that the elongation of carrier particles may play an important role in determining the aerosolization properties of the microcapsules. It seems that decrease in crystalline content of carriers may contribute to a decreased in fine particle fraction delivered. © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.06.002
Title:Improved respirable fraction of budesonide powder for dry powder inhaler formulations produced by advanced supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end processing and use of a novel additive
Authors:Y. MiyazakiN. ArugaK. KadotaY. TozukaH. Takeuchi
Absract:A budesonide (BDS) suspension was obtained via advanced supercritical carbon dioxide (scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end) processing. Thereafter, the suspension was freeze-dried (FD) to produce BDS particles for dry powder inhaler formulations (scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end/FD processing). The scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end/FD processed BDS powder showed low crystallinity by powder X-ray diffraction and a rough surface by scanning electron microscopy. The respirable fraction of BDS was assessed using a twin impinger and revealed that the amount of the scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end/FD processed sample that reached stage 2 was 4-fold higher than that of the supplied powder. To extend the utility of scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end processing, BDS particles for dry powder inhalers were fabricated by combining the scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end system with various additives. When BDS was processed via scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end/FD in the presence of the novel additive, namely, monoglyceride stearate (MGS), the residual BDS/MGS particles remaining in the capsule and devices decreased, followed by an increase in the respirable fraction of BDS 6-fold higher than with the supplied powder. The scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end/FD processed BDS/MGS particles had a smooth surface, in contrast to the scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end/FD processed BDS particles. A combination of BDS and an appropriate additive in scCO@sub_begin2@sub_end treatment may induce changes in particle surface morphology, leading to an improvement in the inhalation properties of BDS.

doi:10.1007/s11095-016-2035-9
Title:Aerosolization, Drug Permeation and Cellular Interaction of Dry Powder Pulmonary Formulations of Corticosteroids with Hydroxypropyl-β-Cyclodextrin as a Solubilizer
Authors:V. VartiainenL.M. BimboJ. HirvonenE.I. KauppinenJ. Raula
Absract:Purpose: The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin as a solubilizer for the corticosteroids prednisolone and fludrocortisone acetate in dry powder inhalation formulations. Methods: The dry particles were simultaneously produced and coated with nanosized L-leucine crystals using an aerosol flow reactor method. The aerosolization performances of carrier-free powders were studied using Easyhaler® and Twister™ at 2 and 4 kPa pressure drops over the inhalers. Drug permeation properties of the formulations were tested across a Calu-3 cell monolayer. Toxicity and reactive oxygen species induction were tested against Calu-3 and A549 cell lines. Results: The hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin in the powders promoted the dissolution of fludrocortisone the most, followed by that of prednisolone. Fine particle fractions were 52–70% from emitted doses which showed good repeatability with a coefficient variation of 0.9–0.17. In addition, hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin enhanced the permeation of the corticosteroids. The powders showed no statistically significant toxicity nor reactive oxygen species induction in the tested cell lines. Conclusions: This study demonstrated the preparation and function of fine powder formulations which combine improved dissolution of poorly soluble drugs with good aerosolization performance. These results are expected to promote particle engineering as a way to develop new types of therapeutic pulmonary powders.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.01.066
Title:Development of a novel dry powder inhalation formulation for the delivery of rivastigmine hydrogen tartrate
Authors:A. SimonM.I. AmaroL.M. CabralA.M. HealyV.P. De Sousa
Absract:The purpose of this study was to prepare engineered particles of rivastigmine hydrogen tartrate (RHT) and to characterize the physicochemical and aerodynamic properties, in comparison to a lactose carrier formulation (LCF). Microparticles were prepared from ethanol/water solutions containing RHT with and without the incorporation of l-leucine (Leu), using a spray dryer. Dry powder inhaler formulations prepared were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, powder X-ray diffraction, laser diffraction particle sizing, ATR-FTIR, differential scanning calorimetry, bulk and tapped density, dynamic vapour sorption and in vitro aerosol deposition behaviour using a next generation impactor. The smooth-surfaced spherical morphology of the spray dried microparticles was altered by adding Leu, resulting in particles becoming increasingly wrinkled with increasing Leu. Powders presented low densities. The glass transition temperature was sufficiently high (>90 °C) to suggest good stability at room temperature. As Leu content increased, spray dried powders presented lower residual solvent content, lower particle size, higher fine particle fraction (FPF < 5 μm), and lower mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD). The LCF showed a lower FPF and higher MMAD, relative to the spray dried formulations containing more than 10% Leu. Spray dried RHT powders presented better aerodynamic properties, constituting a potential drug delivery system for oral inhalation.

doi:10.1248/bpb.27.554
Title:Preventive and curative effects of Gyokuheifu-san, a formula of traditional Chinese medicine, on allergic rhinitis induced with Japanese cedar pollens in guinea pig
Authors:T. MakinoY. ItoS.-Y. SasakiY. FujimuraY. Kano
Absract:Gyokuheifu-san (GHS; Jade Windscreen Powder in English, Yupingfeng-san in Chinese) is an herbal formula in traditional Chinese medicine that consolidates the superficial resistance to protect from invasion by external pathogenic influences. We evaluated the preventive and curative effects of GHS on allergic rhinitis induced by Japanese cedar pollens in guinea pigs, since the pollen can be considered one of external pathogens indicated by GHS. Guinea pigs were sensitized by intranasal instillation of cedar pollen extract with alum twice a day for 7 d, and the animals were then forced to inhale the pollens for challenge once a week for 5 weeks. We administered GHS once a day for 2 weeks in the period of sensitization to evaluate its preventive effect, or for 2 weeks from the 2nd to the 4th week of pollen inhalation, once pollinosis had begun, to evaluate its curative effect on allergic rhinitis. GHS significantly suppressed the frequency of sneezing induced by pollens and tended to reduce nose-scratching behavior after ceasing its administration in both designs of medicinal treatment. Tranilast, which is an anti-allergic drug we used as a positive control, could not suppress these rhinitic symptoms. GHS appears to have non-symptomatic and non-allopathic effects on allergic rhinitis. Our results suggest that traditional medicines have their own characteristics different from modern medicines, and the original pharmacological experiments are important to evaluate traditional medicines scientifically. © 2004 Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1177/0192623320943129
Title:Nonclinical Safety Assessment of an Inhaled Formulation of Serelaxin: A Recombinant Human Protein in Rats and Cynomolgus Monkeys (Macaca fascicularis)
Authors:T.D. FlandreA.S. HeyF.J. Spence
Absract:Serelaxin is a recombinant human relaxin-2 intended for cardiovascular indications. Inhalation was chosen as alternative route to intravenous to allow daily administration for chronic applications and home treatment. A total of 4 short-term studies were conducted in rats and cynomolgus monkeys with inhaled formulation of serelaxin at dose up to 10 mg/kg/d. All rats and cynomolgus macaques receiving serelaxin were exposed to the test item. One rat and approximately 50% of macaques developed immunogenicity, which did not appear to affect exposure. No adverse effect on respiratory function or systemic changes was noted. Both species developed similar microscopic lesions characterized by eosinophilic cell infiltration around bronchi; however, in the rat, this was more pronounced and extended to a perivascular location. In addition, in the rat, serelaxin showed eosinophilic crystalline material associated with macrophages in the alveoli and bronchioles. In macaques, serelaxin induced minimal macrophage infiltrates in alveoli and perivascular/peribronchiolar mononuclear cell infiltrations. The minimal airway eosinophilic/mononuclear inflammatory cell infiltrations were considered to be nonadverse in macaques due to the minimal severity and the lack of any other alterations in the lung parenchyma. In the rat, the presence of eosinophilic crystalline material and macrophage response, characterized as precipitated test article, was considered adverse.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2013.02.025
Title:Development of a nano-micro carrier system for sustained pulmonary delivery of clarithromycin
Authors:P.H. MoghaddamV. RamezaniE. EsfandiA. VatanaraM. Nabi-MeibodiM. DarabiK. GilaniA.R. Najafabadi
Absract:To overcome the limitations of nanoparticles for respiratory drug delivery, we prepared nano-composites containing micro-particles as drug carriers for targeting the lungs. The aim of present study was preparation of Clarithromycin (CLM) loaded poly Lactide-co-Glycolide (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) and evaluation of aerodynamic behavior of co-spray dried NPs with different carriers. Mannitol and lactose were employed as dry powder carriers for inhalation and the effects of l-leucine as a third component for increasing the yield and fine particle fraction (FPF) of powders were investigated.PLGA was employed as a GRAS (Generally Regarded As Safe) polymer and the NPs were prepared by emulsification solvent evaporation technique in different conditions. We assessed physicochemical characteristics of the NPs in terms of particles' size, poly dispersity index (PDI), entrapment efficiency, drug loading, release profile, thermal behavior, morphology and aerodynamic performance.Particle size of NPs was between 78 and 347. nm and drug loading of NPs varied from 0.08% to 7.44% in different formulations. Thermal analysis demonstrated the merging of drug into the polymer matrix and drug release profiles appeared to consist of two phases with an initial rapid release followed by a slower exponential stage.After co-spray drying of NPs with sugar based carriers, spherical particles with size range of 5.3 to 8.9. μm were harvested. The presence of l-leucine in formulations resulted in significant increase of yield as well as FPF of particles. © 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2012.02.028
Title:Particles and powders: Tools of innovation for non-invasive drug administration
Authors:F. ButtiniP. ColomboA. RossiF. SonvicoG. Colombo
Absract:The paper briefly illustrates several approaches applied in delivering particulate drugs as powders. Microparticulate drug powders are difficult to manipulate with respect to dosage form preparation, particularly when they have very small size as this leads to poor flow and packing properties. When the dosage form performance resides in the presence of individual intact drug particles, the particle characteristics have to be retained in their original state, i.e., not altered during manufacturing and/or within the dosage form. There are several examples of dry powder dosage forms intended for different administration routes whose performance is strictly dependent on particle characteristics. In addition, the preparation of the finished dosage form is dependent on powder properties. The paper addresses dry powder formulations with special focus on oral powders mainly for elderly people or children, nasal powders and inhalation dry powders. These dosage forms are very attractive for both researchers and companies. Their formulation requires deep investigation, mainly in order to define particle structure and performance. Indeed, this makes for a new breakthrough in pharmaceutics and may lead to innovative products. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2010.02.004
Title:Can low-dose combination products for inhalation be formulated in single crystalline particles?
Authors:M. KumonP.C.L. KwokH. AdiD. HengH.-K. Chan
Absract:This study aims to produce and test the performance of novel crystalline respirable particles containing two low-dose active ingredients and mannitol. This technique overcomes the usual requirement of blending with lactose carriers in formulating combination inhalation products. Ternary powders were produced by co-spray drying solutions containing an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting β2-agonist (LABA), and mannitol as a crystalline excipient. Two formulations comprising widely used ICS and LABA were studied: budesonide/formoterol fumarate dihydrate/mannitol (B/F/M-SD) and fluticasone propionate/salmeterol xinafoate/mannitol (F/S/M-SD). Various physicochemical properties of the powders were analyzed. Aerosol performance was evaluated by dispersing each powder from an Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end at 60 and 100L/min into a Next Generation Impactor. We obtained partially hollow spherical particles (volume median diameters of 2μm) with drug-enriched surfaces. Both formulations contained α-mannitol, and the ICSs were crystalline. The content of each drug component in the powder was found to conform to the theoretical dose. The ternary powders generated high fine particle fractions (>50% of the loaded dose), with concomitant drug deposition on the impactor stages. The aerosol performance of B/F/M-SD was maintained after storage over silica gel at 22°C for 11 weeks. In conclusion, co-spray dried particles of ICS/LABA/M-SD were largely crystalline, stable and showed excellent aerosol performance. They may provide an attractive alternative strategy to develop combination products without lactose blends. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1002/jps.20218
Title:The study of in vitro-in vivo correlation: Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of albuterol dry powder inhalers
Authors:T. SrichanaR. SuedeeD. MuanpanaraiN. Tanmanee
Absract:The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of albuterol were studied following inhalation of three different in-house dry powder formulations in healthy volunteers and in asthmatics. Albuterol in plasma was measured using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The plasma concentration time profiles were fitted to a two-compartment model with first-order kinetics. Oral absorption of swallowed albuterol was eliminated by oral dosing of 560 mg activated charcoal 1 h prior to albuterol aerosol administration. The peak concentration was reached within 15-20 min. Mean peak concentrations in healthy volunteers (six males and six females) were 1.74 ± 0.34, 2.01 ± 0.35, and 2.59 ± 0.27 ng/mL following inhalation of formulations with fine particle doses (FPDs) of 100, 120, and 160 μg of albuterol, respectively. The corresponding peak plasma concentrations of 1.23 ± 0.29, 1.37 ± 0.13, and 1.53 ± 0.11 ng/mL were obtained when asthmatics (six males and six females) were dosed with the same three formulations. The FPD of each formulation correlated well with the area under the curve of plasma concentration-time (AUC@sub_begin0-8@sub_end) profile. Plasma potassium did not show any significant change over a period of 8 h. The forced vital capacity (FVC), the force expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end), and mid expiratory flow (FEF@sub_begin25-75@sub_end) did not correlate with FPD for the three different formulations. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1208/s12249-021-02043-5
Title:Spray-Dried Inhalable Powder Formulations of Therapeutic Proteins and Peptides
Authors:B.B. EedaraW. AlabsiD. Encinas-BasurtoR. PoltH.M. Mansour
Absract:Respiratory diseases are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Innovations in biochemical engineering and understanding of the pathophysiology of respiratory diseases resulted in the development of many therapeutic proteins and peptide drugs with high specificity and potency. Currently, protein and peptide drugs are mostly administered by injections due to their large molecular size, poor oral absorption, and labile physicochemical properties. However, parenteral administration has several limitations such as frequent dosing due to the short half-life of protein and peptide in blood, pain on administration, sterility requirement, and poor patient compliance. Among various noninvasive routes of administrations, the pulmonary route has received a great deal of attention and is a better alternative to deliver protein and peptide drugs for treating respiratory diseases and systemic diseases. Among the various aerosol dosage forms, dry powder inhaler (DPI) systems appear to be promising for inhalation delivery of proteins and peptides due to their improved stability in solid state. This review focuses on the development of DPI formulations of protein and peptide drugs using advanced spray drying. An overview of the challenges in maintaining protein stability during the drying process and stabilizing excipients used in spray drying of proteins and peptide drugs is discussed. Finally, a summary of spray-dried DPI formulations of protein and peptide drugs, their characterization, various DPI devices used to deliver protein and peptide drugs, and current clinical status are discussed.

doi:10.1208/aapsj070104
Title:Carrier-based strategies for targeting protein and peptide drugs to the lungs
Authors:S.-A. Cryan
Absract:With greater interest in delivery of protein and peptide-based drugs to the lungs for topical and systemic activity, a range of new devices and formulations are being investigated. While a great deal of recent research has focused on the development of novel devices, attention must now be paid to the formulation of these macromolecular drugs. The emphasis in this review will be on targeting of protein/peptide drugs by inhalation using carriers and ligands. Copyright ©2003. All Rights Reserved.

doi:10.1111/bph.15197
Title:Cough as an adverse effect on inhalation pharmaceutical products
Authors:R.Y.K. ChangP.C.L. KwokS. GhassabianJ.D. BrannanH.O. KoskelaH.-K. Chan
Absract:Cough is an adverse effect that may hinder the delivery of drugs into the lungs. Chemical or mechanical stimulants activate the transient receptor potential in some airway afferent nerves (C-fibres or A-fibres) to trigger cough. Types of inhaler device and drug, dose, excipients and formulation characteristics, including pH, tonicity, aerosol output and particle size may trigger cough by stimulating the cough receptors. Release of inflammatory mediators may increase the sensitivity of the cough receptors to stimulants. The cough-provoking effect of aerosols is enhanced by bronchoconstriction in diseased airways and reduces drug deposition in the target pulmonary regions. In this article, we review the factors by which inhalation products may cause cough.

doi:10.1515/ejnm-2014-0019
Title:Overcoming the pulmonary barrier: New insights to improve the efficiency of inhaled therapeutics
Authors:X. MurgiaC. De Souza CarvalhoC.-M. Lehr
Absract:The pulmonary route offers an exceptional, non-invasive administration site for drug delivery. The principal characteristics that make the lungs an appealing route for drug administration include a large surface for drug dispersion (approximately 100 m@sup_begin2@sup_end), a low content of drug-metabolizing enzymes, and a high vascularization for systemic drug delivery. Recent advances in this field such as the development of modern inhalation devices, novel inhalation-adapted formulations, and innovative drug carriers have contributed to a significant improvement in the low level of lung aerosol deposition achieved in the past, and have allowed for an enhancement in aerosol penetration into the lungs. Less focus however has been placed on the fate of inhaled particles after they deposit onto lung surfaces. After first contact with a pulmonary surface therapeutic particles are exposed to complex microenvironments and biological barriers (both cellular and non-cellular) that may vary widely in composition depending on the region of the lung in which the particles deposit. Most of the current inhaled therapies aim to achieve deep lung deposition at the alveolar air-blood barrier. In this particular region, the epithelium is coated with the pulmonary surfactant, a thin liquid layer composed of lipids and proteins that reduces surface tension in the alveoli, but which also interacts with and may influence the fate of inhaled therapeutics within the alveolar region. In addition, alveolar macrophages efficiently engulf inhaled particulates in the 1-5 μm size range; these therefore also pose a significant barrier to the effective delivery of therapeutic micro- and nanoparticles (NPs). Furthermore, the tightly-joined epithelium of the airways is coated with a dynamic viscous mucus layer which forms the mucociliary escalator, an efficiently coordinated piece of machinery that entraps inhaled particulates including pollutants, pathogens and, eventually, therapeutic NPs, and removes them from the lungs. A better understanding of the complex processes to which inhaled particles are subjected within distinct regions of the lungs may allow for the design of innovative therapeutics, including biocompatible polymeric NPs, aimed to efficiently overcome the complex pulmonary barriers and thus enhance the therapeutic efficiency of NP-associated actives. The current review therefore discusses the structure of the pulmonary barriers, as well as some of most innovative strategies to overcome them in order to facilitate an enhanced delivery of inhaled therapeutics.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.0884
Title:Comparative pulmonary function and pharmacokinetics of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol xinafoate delivered by two dry powder inhalers to patients with asthma
Authors:L.I. HarrisonC.C. NovakM.J. NeedhamP. Ratner
Absract:Background: This report presents results of the first human study of a new dry powder inhaler (DPI-C). DPI-C uses reverse flow cyclone technology to retain larger particles in the device and to increase efficiency of respirable drug release. The study was conducted to determine comparative pharmacokinetics (not bioequivalence) of DPI-C and DPI-A (Advair Diskus® , GlaxoSmithKline) and to establish preliminary efficacy and safety of DPI-C. Methods: Nineteen patients with mild-moderate asthma received two treatments (randomized crossover design). Treatments were one inhalation from DPI-A labeled to deliver 100μg fluticasone propionate and 50?g salmeterol, or one inhalation from DPI-C which contained ∼10% less of each drug per metered dose. Prior to dosing, 10g of charcoal was administered. FEV1 increase over baseline (measured over 12h), plasma concentrations of fluticasone and salmeterol (measured over 12.5h), and occurrence of adverse events were the primary measures of device performance and safety. Results: Seventeen patients were evaluable. Response profiles of percent increase in FEV1 over baseline showed no statistically significant differences between devices. Peak plasma concentrations of both fluticasone (p=0.003) and salmeterol (p=0.084) were higher from DPI-C. Mean extent of absorption [area under the curve (AUC)] of fluticasone was approximately 30% greater with DPI-C, whereas AUC of salmeterol was approximately 40% greater with DPI-A. Conclusions: DPI-C provided similar improvement in pulmonary function compared with DPI-A. Pharmacokinetic results showed a greater initial absorption of salmeterol with DPI-C but greater continued absorption and a 40% greater AUC with DPI-A, which we attribute to slower but more extensive oral absorption because of the greater mass of swallowed large particles of salmeterol generated by DPI-A. No patient reported any treatment-related adverse event or use of rescue medication during this study. Determination of the significance of the observed differences in pharmacokinetics from this single-dose study requires further exploration in studies using clinically relevant dosing regimens. © Copyright 2011, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2011.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(95)00104-Q
Title:The controlled delivery of drugs to the lung
Authors:X.M. ZengG.P. MartinC. Marriott
Absract:Inhalation of aerosolised drugs has become a well established modality in the treatment of localised disease states within the lung. However, most medications in aerosol form require inhalation daily at least 3-4 times because of the relatively short duration of resultant clinical effects. Some studies have been conducted with a view to sustaining release of drugs in the lung so as to prolong drug action, reduce side effects and improve patient compliance. Liposomes have been shown to have the potential to produce controlled delivery to the lung, since they can be prepared with phospholipids endogenous to the lung as surfactants. Up to now, many drugs have been incorporated into liposomes and tested in both human subjects and animal models as pulmonary delivery systems. Other biodegradable microspheres (MS) such as albumin MS and poly(lactide and/or glycolide) copolymer MS are also being investigated. In contrast to liposomes, these MS may be more physico-chemically stable both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, drugs entrapped in biodegradable MS may have a slower release rate and a longer duration of action than those incorporated in liposomes. The prodrug approach has been successful in producing long-lasting bronchodilators whilst conjugation of drugs to macromolecules provides a possible mechanism for controlled release of drugs for either localised or systemic actions. Sustained release in the lung can also be achieved by reducing the aqueous solubility of the drug or co-precipitating relatively insoluble materials with aqueous soluble drugs. In contrast, inclusion of drugs in cyclodextrins is unable to sustain drug release in the lung, which may be due to the premature breakdown of drug-cyclodextrin conjugates in vivo. Many interdependent factors, involving the lung, carrier, drug and device have been shown to influence the overall disposition of drugs in the respiratory tract after inhalation. Current studies on pulmonary delivery systems have many limitations, mainly due to the lack of suitable animal models and the chronic side effects of drug carriers have yet to be established. Thus, more inter-disciplinary collaboration is essential for the development of effective controlled drug delivery systems intended for administration to the lung.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Comparison of commercially available hpmc inhalation-grade capsules and effect on aerosol performance within model DPI formulations
Authors:L. DingA.D. BrunaughC. LeeQ. ZhaoJ. KalafatS. PowaleJ. BhatD. AlmeidaA. SolankiH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:Despite the major role capsules have in many dry powder inhalation (DPI) systems, few studies have been performed to examine the interaction of the capsules with respirable powders. This study of four commercially availableHPMCinhalation grade capsule types investigated their effect on aerosol performance of two model DPI formulations (lactose carrier and a carrier free formulation) at two different pressure drops. No statistically significant performance differences were found in carrier-based formulation. Using carrier-free rifampin formulation, Embocaps® VG capsules exhibited higher mean emitted fraction (EF) (89.86%) and lower mean mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) (4.19) than Vcaps® (Capsugel) (85.54%, 5.10) and Quali-V® I (Qualicaps) (85.01, 5.09) at 2 kPa pressure drop conditions (p < 0.05), but no significant performance differences between ACGcaps®HI and Embocaps® VG in this study. At 4 kPa pressure drop condition, Embocaps® VG demonstrated a higher mean respirable fraction (RF)/fine particle fraction (FPF) with a 5 μm size cut-off (RF/FPF <5 μm) (49.15%/52.57%) versusACGcaps®HI (38.88/41.99%) (p < 0.01), and a higher mean RF/FPF with a 3 μm size cut-off (RF/FPF <3 μm) (33.05%/35.36%) versus Quali-V® I (28.16%/31.75%) (p < 0.05). Therefore, optimal capsule type varies depending on the DPI formulation and the desired performance outcomes. For the carrier-based formulation, aerosol performance variability as well as the pierced-flap detachment may also drive selection of capsule type. For the carrier free formulation, capsule type influenced EF, RF, FPF, and MMAD.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.06.032
Title:Preparation of theophylline inhalable microcomposite particles by wet milling and spray drying: The influence of mannitol as a co-milling agent
Authors:M. MalamatariS. SomavarapuK. KachrimanisM. BloxhamK.M.G. TaylorG. Buckton
Absract:Inhalable theophylline particles with various amounts of mannitol were prepared by combining wet milling in isopropanol followed by spray drying. The effect of mannitol as a co-milling agent on the micromeritic properties, solid state and aerosol performance of the engineered particles was investigated. Crystal morphology modelling and geometric lattice matching calculations were employed to gain insight into the intermolecular interactions that may influence the mechanical properties of theophylline and mannitol. The addition of mannitol facilitated the size reduction of the needle-like crystals of theophylline and also their assembly in microcomposites by forming a porous structure of mannitol nanocrystals wherein theophylline particles are embedded. The microcomposites were found to be in the same crystalline state as the starting material(s) ensuring their long-term physical stability upon storage. Incorporation of mannitol resulted in microcomposite particles with smaller size, more spherical shape and increased porosity. The aerosol performance of the microcomposites was markedly enhanced compared to the spray-dried suspension of theophylline wet milled without mannitol. Overall, wet co-milling with mannitol in an organic solvent followed by spray drying may be used as a formulation approach for producing respirable particles of water-soluble drugs or drugs that are prone to crystal transformation in an aqueous environment (i.e. formation of hydrates).

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.11.039
Title:Particle engineering of materials for oral inhalation by dry powder inhalers. i - Particles of sugar excipients (trehalose and raffinose) for protein delivery
Authors:O.N. ÓgáinJ. LiL. TajberO.I. CorriganA.M. Healy
Absract:The pulmonary route of delivery offers a potential alternative to parenteral administration of peptides and proteins. Protection of protein structure is essential in both processing and storage of the final formulation. Sugars, such as trehalose and raffinose, have been employed to act as protein stabilisers. Optimisation of the aerodynamic characteristics of microparticles in dry powder inhaler formulations is critical to ensure optimum deposition of the formulation into the respiratory tract. In the present study we examine the adaptation to hydrophilic materials, specifically the disaccharide, trehalose and the trisaccharide, raffinose, of a previously reported spray drying process for producing nanoporous microparticles (NPMPs). We also investigate the feasibility of incorporating a model protein, lysozyme, into these sugar-based NPMPs. While spray drying raffinose or trehalose from aqueous solution or ethanol:water solutions resulted in non-porous microspheres, spray drying from a methanol:n-butyl acetate mixed solvent system resulted in microparticles which appeared to consist of an agglomeration of individual nanoparticles, i.e. nanoporous/nanoparticulate microparticles. NPMPs of trehalose and raffinose were amorphous, with glass transition temperatures (Tgs) that were sufficiently high (124 °C and ∼120 °C for trehalose and raffinose, respectively) to suggest good physical stability at room temperature and good potential to act as protein carriers and/or stabilisers. NPMPs demonstrated improved aerosolisation properties compared to spray dried non-porous particles. The successful incorporation of lysozyme into these NPMPs at a sugar to protein weight ratio of 1:4 demonstrated the potential of these systems to act as carriers for peptide or protein drugs which could be delivered via the pulmonary route.© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:30993255
Title:A study comparing the clinical pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and tolerability of triamcinolone acetonide HFA-134a metered-dose inhaler and budesonide dry-powder inhaler following inhalation administration
Authors:D. ArgentiB. ShahD. Heald
Absract:The impending phaseout of chlorofluorocarbons as propellants in pressurized metered-dose inhalers used in the treatment of asthma has resulted in the development of alternative devices to deliver drug to the pulmonary airways. These alternative devices include metered-dose inhalers using environmentally friendly hydroflurocarbon propellants and breath-actuated dry-powder inhalers. The purpose of this study was to compare the single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and tolerability of a newly developed hydroflurocarbon formulation of triamcinolone acetonide (Azmacort® HFA 225 mcg Inhalation Aerosol) to that of the dry-powder formulation of budesonide (Pulmicortρ Turbuhaler 200 mcg). This three-way crossover study used 18 normal healthy subjects each receiving a 675 mcg dose of triamcinolone acetonide, 600 mcg dose of budesonide, or placebo twice a day for 5 days. Serial plasma samples were collected after the first and last dose of test medication for pharmacokinetic analysis. Pharmacodynamics were assessed by changes in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function as measured by 8 a.m. serum cortisol, 24-hour overnight serum cortisol AUC(@sub_begin0@sub_end-@sub_begin24@sub_end), and 24-hour urinary-free cortisol after the last evening dose of test drug. Tolerability was assessed through physical examinations, vital signs, 12-lead ECG, routine clinical labs, and adverse events recording. Both compounds were systemically absorbed. However, no significant drug accumulation was noted with chronic dosing. Chronic dosing did result in a statistically significant 20% reduction in basal 24-hour serum cortisol AUC(@sub_begin0@sub_end-@sub_begin24@sub_end) for both compounds. There were no clinically significant abnormalities in physical examination, vital signs, 12-lead ECG, or routine clinical labs noted during the study. Overall, the study drugs were well tolerated, with adverse events characterized as mild to moderate in severity. (C) 2000 the American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

doi:10.1016/j.drudis.2020.07.018
Title:Recent advances in the development of microparticles for pulmonary administration
Authors:H. JainA. BairagiS. SrivastavaS.B. SinghN.K. Mehra
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery offers several benefits for the management of various conditions over other conventional routes. Inhalation of drugs can also be useful for targeting alveolar macrophages and for maintaining a higher drug concentration in the lung tissues to improve the efficacy of drugs and shorten the duration of treatment, thereby reducing drug toxicities. Thus, such an approach is useful in the treatment of various pulmonary and nonpulmonary diseases. Newer techniques and delivery devices have been used for the formulation of inhalable microparticles. Here. we not only focus on advances in inhalation therapy and in the preparation of microparticles, but also address the clinical development and regulatory aspects of such therapies.

doi:10.2174/1389203721666191231110453
Title:Inhalation delivery of host defense peptides (HDP) using nanoformulation strategies: A pragmatic approach for therapy of pulmonary ailments
Authors:S. AdlakhaA. SharmaK. VaghasiyaE. RayR.K. Verma
Absract:Host defense peptides (HDP) are small cationic molecules released by the immune systems of the body, having multidimensional properties including anti-inflammatory, anticancer, antimicrobial and immune-modulatory activity. These molecules gained importance due to their broad-spectrum pharmacological activities, and hence being actively investigated. Presently, respiratory infections represent a major global health problem, and HDP has an enormous potential to be used as an alternative therapeutics against respiratory infections and related inflammatory ailments. Because of their short half-life, protease sensitivity, poor pharmacokinetics, and first-pass metabolism, it is challenging to deliver HDP as such inside the physiological system in a controlled way by conventional delivery systems. Many HDPs are efficacious only at practically high molar-concentrations, which is not convincing for the development of drug regimen due to their intrinsic detrimental effects. To avail the efficacy of HDP in pulmonary diseases, it is essential to deliver an appropriate payload into the targeted site of lungs. Inhalable HDP can be a potentially suitable alternative for various lung disorders including tuberculosis, Cystic fibrosis, Pneumonia, Lung cancer, and others as they are active against resistant microbes and cells and exhibit improved targeting with reduced adverse effects. In this review, we give an overview of the pharmacological efficacy of HDP and deliberate strategies for designing inhalable formulations for enhanced activity and issues related to their clinical implications.

doi:10.1007/s11051-014-2602-0
Title:Sustainable strategies for nano-in-micro particle engineering for pulmonary delivery
Authors:A.S. SilvaM.T. TavaresA. Aguiar-Ricardo
Absract:With the increasing popularity and refinement of inhalation therapy, there has been a huge demand for the design and development of fine-tuned inhalable drug particles capable of assuring an efficient delivery to the lungs with optimal therapeutic outcomes. To cope with this demand, novel particle technologies have arisen over the last decade agreeing with the progress of pulmonary therapeutics that were commonly given by injection. Nanotechnology holds a considerable potential in the development of new release mechanisms of active ingredients to the deep lungs. For an accurate deep lung deposition and effective delivery of nanoparticles, respirable nano-in-micro formulations have been extensively investigated. Microparticles with nanoscale features can now be developed, and their functionalities have contributed to stabilize and improve the efficacy of the particulated dosage form. This paper reviews the different types of the aerosolizable nano-in-micro particles, as well as their sustainable production and characterization processes as dry powders. This review also intends to provide a critical insight of the current goals and technologies of particle engineering for the development of pulmonary drug delivery systems with a special emphasis on nano-micro dry powder formulations prepared by spray-drying and supercritical fluid-assisted techniques. The merits and limitations of these technologies are debated with reference to their appliance to specific drug and/or excipient materials. Finally, a list of most recent/ongoing clinical trials regarding pulmonary delivery of this type of formulation is described.

doi:10.1002/jps.22663
Title:Particle aerosolisation and break-up in dry powder inhalers: Evaluation and modelling of the influence of grid structures for agglomerated systems
Authors:W. WongD.F. FletcherD. TrainiH.-K. ChanJ. CrapperP.M. Young
Absract:This study aimed to investigate the influence of grid structures on the break-up and aerosol performance of a model inhalation formulation through the use of standardised entrainment tubes in combination with computational fluid dynamics (CFD). A series of entrainment tubes with grid structures of different aperture size and wire diameters were designed in silico and constructed using three-dimensional printing. The flow characteristics were simulated using CFD, and the deposition and aerosol performance of a model agglomerate system (496.3-789.2 μm agglomerates containing 3.91 μm median diameter mannitol particles) were evaluated by chemical analysis and laser diffraction, respectively. Analysis of the mannitol recovery from the assembly indicated that mass deposition was primarily on the grid structure with little before or after the grid. Mass deposition was minimal down to 532 μm; however, for smaller grid apertures, significant blockage was observed at all airflow rates (60-140 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end). Analysis of the particle size distribution exiting the impactor assembly suggested that mannitol aerosolisation was dependent on the void percentage of the grid structure. It is proposed that initial particle-grid impaction results in a shearing force causing agglomerate fragmentation followed by immediate re-entrainment into the turbulent airstream within the grid apertures which causes further dispersion of the fine particles. Such observations have significant implications in the design of dry powder inhaler devices. © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1208/s12249-010-9500-2
Title:A dry powder formulation of liposome-encapsulated recombinant secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (rSLPI) for inhalation: Preparation and characterisation
Authors:A. GibbonsN.G. McElvaneyS.-A. Cryan
Absract:Inhaled recombinant secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor (rSLPI) has shown potential for the treatment of inflammatory lung conditions. Rapid inactivation of rSLPI by cathepsin L (Cat L) and rapid clearance from the lungs has limited clinical efficacy to date. Previous studies by us have shown that encapsulation of rSLPI within1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-[phospho-L-serine]/ cholesterol (DOPS/Chol) liposomes protects rSLPI against Cat L inactivation in vitro. Liquid DOPS-rSLPI preparations were found to be unstable upon long-term storage and nebulisation. The aim of this study was therefore to develop a method of manufacture for preparing DOPS-rSLPI liposomes as a dry powder for inhalation. DOPS-rSLPI dry powders were lyophilised and subsequently micronised with a novel micronisation aid. The effects of formulation and processing on rSLPI stability, activity, and uniformity of content within the powders were characterised. Using D-mannitol as the micronisation aid, dry powder particles in the inhalable size range (<5 μm) were prepared. By optimising process parameters, up to 54% of rSLPI was recovered after micronisation, of which there was no significant loss in anti-neutrophil elastase activity and no detectable evidence of protein degradation. Aerosolisation was achieved using a dry powder inhaler, and mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) was evaluated after collection in a cascade impactor. Aerosolisation of the DOPS-rSLPI dry powder yielded 38% emitted dose, with 2.44 μm MMAD. When challenged with Cat L post-aerosolisation, DOPS-rSLPI dry powder was significantly better at retaining a protective function against Cat L-induced rSLPI inactivation compared to the aqueous DOPS-rSLPI liposome dispersion and was also more stable under storage. © 2010 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1016/j.jocrd.2021.100664
Title:Patterns of cannabis use among individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder: Results from an internet survey
Authors:R.R. KayserM.S. SenterR. TobetM. RaskinS. PatelH.B. Simpson
Absract:Background: Americans increasingly use cannabis, including those with psychiatric disorders. Yet little is known about cannabis use among individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Thus, we conducted the first survey of cannabis users with OCD. Methods: Adults with OCD (i.e., prior professional diagnosis and/or score above the cutoff on a validated scale) who reported using cannabis were recruited from internet sources to complete a survey querying demographic information, medical/psychiatric history, cannabis use patterns, and perceived cannabis effects. Results: Of 1096 survey completers, 601 met inclusion criteria. Inhalation/cannabis flower were the most common method/formulation participants endorsed; most identified using high-potency cannabis products; 42% met criteria for cannabis use disorder. Nearly 90% self-reported using cannabis medicinally, 33.8% had a physician's recommendation, and 29% used specifically to manage OCD symptoms. Most participants reported cannabis improved obsessions/compulsions; those with increased obsession severity perceived less benefit. Finally, most participants were not receiving evidence-based OCD treatment, and the odds of receiving treatment decreased with increased cannabis use. Conclusions: In this survey, participants with OCD reported both subjective benefits and harms from cannabis use. Future research should clarify the risks and benefits of cannabis use to those with OCD and develop treatment models to better support this population.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.10.051
Title:Aerosolized semifluorinated alkanes as excipients are suitable for inhalative drug delivery - A pilot study
Authors:C. TsagogiorgasT. JungJ. KrebsB. TheisingerG. BeckB.A. YardM. Quintel
Absract:Semifluorinated alkanes (SFAs) have been described as potential excipients for pulmonary drug delivery, but proof of their efficacy is still lacking. We tested whether SFA formulations with the test drug ibuprofen can be nebulised and evaluated their pharmacokinetics. Physico-chemical properties of five different ibuprofen formulations were evaluated: an aqueous solution (H2O), two different SFAs (perfluorohexyloctane (F6H8), perfluorobutylpentane (F4H5)) with and without ethanol (SFA/EtOH). Nebulisation was performed with a jet catheter system. Inhalative characteristics were evaluated by laser diffraction. A confirmative animal study with an inhalative single-dose (6 mg/kg) of ibuprofen with each formulation was performed in anaesthetised healthy rabbits. Plasma samples at defined time points and lung tissue harvested after the 6-h study period were analyzed by HPLC-MS/MS. Pharmacokinetics were calculated using a non-compartment model. All formulations were nebulisable. No differences in aerodynamic diameters (MMAD) were detected between SFA and SFA/EtOH. The ibuprofen plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) was highest with F4H5/EtOH. In contrast, F6H8/EtOH had the highest deposition of ibuprofen into lung tissue but the lowest AUC. All tested SFA and SFA/EtOH formulations are suitable for inhalation. F4H5/EtOH formulations might be used for rapid systemic availability of drugs. F6H8/EtOH showed intrapulmonary deposition of the test drug. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.2165/00024677-200605050-00008
Title:Spotlight on inhaled human insulin (Exubera®) in diabetes mellitus [Adis Spotlight]
Authors:C. DunnM.P. Curran
Absract:Inhaled human insulin (Exubera® [insulin human (rDNA origin)] Inhalation Powder) has recently been approved in the EU and the US for preprandial use in adult patients with diabetes mellitus. This formulation of insulin has a more rapid onset, but similar duration, of glucose-lowering activity compared with subcutaneously administered regular human insulin. Preprandial inhaled human insulin provided glycemic control that was comparable to preprandial subcutaneous regular insulin when added to long- or intermediate-acting subcutaneous basal insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes. Inhaled human insulin is also effective when administered alone, when combined with oral antihyperglycemic therapy, or when combined with basal subcutaneous insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes. Comparable rates of hypoglycemia occurred in patients treated with inhaled human insulin and in those treated with subcutaneous regular human insulin. Patients treated with inhaled human insulin demonstrated a greater decline in pulmonary function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second, carbon monoxide diffusing capacity) than patients treated with comparator antihyperglycemic agents; the mean difference between the treatment groups that favored the comparators was noted within the first several weeks of treatment, and did not change over a 2-year treatment period. This agent has also been associated with significant improvements in some quality-of-life and treatment satisfaction scores, especially when compared with subcutaneous mealtime insulin regimens. Copyright 2006 Adis Data Information BV.

doi:10.1097/00005768-200106000-00007
Title:Laboratory protocol for exercise asthma to evaluate salbutamol given by two devices
Authors:S.D. AndersonS. LambertJ.D. BrannanR.J. WoodH. KoskelaA.R. MortonK.D. Fitch
Absract:Purpose: As new delivery devices and formulations are being introduced for drugs given by inhalation, there is a need to evaluate their equivalence with old preparations. One way to do this is to investigate their equivalence in protecting from exercise-induced asthma (EIA). Methods: We used a protocol for EIA to compare the protective effect of salbutamol delivered by the pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) and the new Diskus dry powder device. Twenty-seven asthmatic subjects with moderately severe EIA completed an exercise test on four separate days at two study centers. Exercise was performed by cycling for 8 min while inhaling dry air (0% RH, 20-24°C). The target workload in W was predicted as (53.76 x predicted FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) - 11.07 and 95% of this target was achieved at 4 min of exercise. This target was chosen in order to achieve ventilation between 50 and 60% of predicted maximum in the last 4 min. Results: There was no significant difference in the workload, ventilation, or heart rate achieved on the study days. The severity of EIA was measured as the % fall in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end. EIA severity was similar on the placebo and control day and the coefficient of variation was 19.4%. The mean ± SD % fall on the control, placebo, salbutamol by Diskus, and pMDI were 42.0% ± 15, 39.4% ± 17.6, 13.4% ± 13.2, and 8.5% ± 13.8, respectively. Salbutamol significantly inhibited the % fall in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end after exercise, and there was no difference between the preparations. Conclusion: The protocol described here is suitable for evaluating equivalence of salbutamol preparations in protecting against EIA and could be used to evaluate the protective effect of other medications.

doi:10.1586/ers.11.56
Title:Tobramycin Inhalation Powder™: A novel drug delivery system for treating chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis
Authors:M.D. ParkinsJ.S. Elborn
Absract:Lung disease in cystic fibrosis (CF) is typified by the development of chronic airways infection culminating in bronchiectasis and progression to end-stage respiratory disease. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a ubiquitous Gram-negative bacteria, is the archetypical CF pathogen and is associated with an accelerated clinical decline. The development and widespread use of chronic suppressive aerosolized antibacterial therapies, in particular Tobramycin Inhalation Solution (TIS), in CF has contributed to reduced lung function decline and improved survival. However, the requirement for the aerosolization of these agents through nebulizers has been associated with increased treatment burden, reduced quality of life and remain a barrier to broader uptake. Tobramycin Inhalation Powder (TIP™) has been developed by Novartis with the express purpose of delivering the same benefits as TIS in a time-effective manner. Administered via the T-326™ (Novartis) Inhaler in four individual 28-mg capsules, TIP can be administered in a quarter of the time of traditional nebulizers and is inherently portable. In clinical studies, TIP has been shown to be safe, result in equivalent or superior reductions in P. aeruginosa sputum density and produce similar improvements in pulmonary function. TIP offers significant advantages in time saving, portability and convenience over traditional nebulized TIS with comparable clinical outcomes for individuals with CF. © 2011 Expert Reviews Ltd.

doi:10.1007/s11095-016-2023-0
Title:Accessorized DPI: a Shortcut towards Flexibility and Patient Adaptability in Dry Powder Inhalation
Authors:F. ButtiniJ. HannonK. SaavedraI. RossiA.G. BalducciH. SmythA. ClarkP. Colombo
Absract:Purpose: In this work, a novel powder dispersion add-on device, the AOS (Axial Oscillating Sphere), was studied in conjunction with commercially available DPI devices to improve the powder dispersion. Methods: An ordered mixture of formoterol fumarate and lactose was selected. We studied in two laboratories located at different altitudes the dispensing and dispersion of the drug at different flow rates, paying particular attention to a number of metrics of Fine Particle Dose (FPD). Results: Two novel findings emerged from the data collected. First, the aerosol quality, measured as fine particle dose, can be increased by adding the accessory promoting the dispersion and de-aggregation of the formulation. The second finding was that, albeit the emitted dose was independent of altitude, the drug/lactose carrier DPI aerosolizing performance changed with the altitude of testing. In particular, fine particle dose depended on both altitude and device configuration. The RS01 inhaler without the AOS accessory used at higher altitude gave the lowest FPD values. By combining the AOS accessory with the DPI, however, the performance dependence on altitude/atmospheric pressure was essentially removed. Conclusions: Increasing inhaler performance can be achieved using an add-on accessory that enhances aerosol dispersion and minimizes flow rate dependency.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2013.852182
Title:Switching from branded to generic inhaled medications: Potential impact on asthma and COPD
Authors:F. LavoriniV. NinaneJ. HaughneyL. BjermerM. MolimardR.P.N. Dekhuijzen
Absract:Pressure on healthcare budgets is increasing, while at the same time patent protection for many branded inhaled medications has expired, leading to the development and growing availability of generic inhaled medicines. Generic inhaled drugs are therapeutically equivalent to original branded options but may differ in their formulation and inhalation device. This new situation raises questions about the potential impact of switching from branded to generic drug/inhaler combination products in patients with asthma or COPD, with or without their consent, in countries where this is permitted. Inhalation devices, particularly dry powder inhalers, vary markedly in their design, method of operation and drug delivery to the lungs. Current guidelines stress the importance of training patients how to use their inhalers but offer little or no guidance on how this should be achieved. Non-adherence to therapy and incorrect inhaler usage are recognised as major factors in poorly or uncontrolled asthma and COPD and switching patients to a different inhaler device may exacerbate these problems, particularly in patients who disagree to switch. Where switching is permitted or mandatory, adequate patient instruction and follow-up monitoring should be provided routinely. © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1166/jbn.2007.050
Title:Liposomes as a carrier for pulmonary delivery of peptides and proteins
Authors:R. BiN. Zhang
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of macromolecules as aerosols is an attractive non-invasive way to replace frequent injections, since lung permits rapid absorption and onset of action due to its intrinsic properties. Especially, inhalation of peptides and proteins for treatment of local and systemic diseases has gained more and more focusing after the commercialization of Exubera®, a DPI formulation of insulin. However, there still exist problems such as short-action, systemic side effects, weak stability when applying aerosols for peptides and proteins. Encapsulation of peptides and protein drugs into liposomal carriers may overcome these disadvantages by offering sustained release and enhancing their local retention time. In addition, liposomes show high compatibilities with pulmonary alveoli for similar lecithin content. A great number of achievements have been made in developing peptides and proteins liposomes aerosols for either topical or systemic application, thus, the aim of this paper is to sum up the developed formulations, novel devices, the newly progress in the in-vitro and in-vivo studies as well as to look at the prospects of clinical applications. Copyright © 2007 American Scientific Publishers All rights reserved.

doi:10.1183/09031936.02.00094302
Title:Aerosolized iloprost induces a mild but sustained inhibition of platelet aggregation
Authors:M. BeghettiG. ReberP. de MoerlooseL. VadasA. ChiappeI. Spahr-SchopferP.C. Rimensberger
Absract:Pathological studies have revealed that one of the main features encountered in the pulmonary vasculature of patients with pulmonary hypertension is the presence of thrombotic lesions. Open pilot studies have indicated that aerosolized iloprost may have beneficial effects in patients with pulmonary hypertension. The effects of aerosolized iloprost on platelet function and plasma cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) were studied. Platelet aggregation and plasma cAMP were measured at baseline, 30 min, 4 and 6 h after inhalation of 15 μg iloprost in 10 healthy volunteers. Maximal platelet aggregation in response to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) (2 and 6 μmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end), collagen (2.5 and 5 μg·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end), epinephrine (1.25 and 5 μmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and arachidonic acid (0.5 mg·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) was measured. Platelet aggregation was significantly inhibited at 30 min in response to ADP (2 and 6 μmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end, epinephrine (1.25 and 5 μmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and collagen (2.5 μg·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end). It was still inhibited at 4 h in response to the same agents, but normalized at 6 h. cAMP increased at 30 min, from 27.3±1.2 to 31.8±1.2 nmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end, remained increased at 4 h (29.2±1.3 nmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and normalized at 6 h (27.4±1.1 nmol·L@sup_begin-1@sup_end). Aerosolized iloprost induced a mild but sustained inhibition of platelet aggregation. Platelet aggregation inhibition may be one of the mechanisms which explains the beneficial effect of repeated inhalation of iloprost in pulmonary hypertension.

doi:10.1093/ajhp/46.9.1845
Title:Principles of nebulizer-delivered drug therapy for asthma
Authors:C.E. Johnson
Absract:The principles of aerosol drug delivery by compressed-air nebulization are described, and the therapeutic agents administered by this process for management of asthma are reviewed. For therapy of acute and chronic asthma, aerosol inhalation has become the primary method of drug administration. Aerosolized particles with aerodynamic diameters of 1 to 5 μm are most efficiently deposited in the lower respiratory tract. Delivery systems for therapeutic aerosols include compressed-air nebulizers and metered-dose inhalers. Comrpessed-air nebulizers are less efficient than metered-dose inhalers; therefore, the drug dosages recommended for nebulizer solutions are 3 to 10 times higher than those delivered by a metered-dose inhaler. Because many asthma patients are treated with nebulization drug therapy at home, both patients and pharmacists must understand how to use the equipment correctly. Drugs used in aerosol therapy of acute and chronic asthma include the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-receptor agonists epinephrine, isoproterenol, isoetharine, metaproterenol terbutaline, and albuterol; cromolyn sodium; and the anticholinergic agents atropine and ipratropium bromide. Terbutaline and albuterol have longer durations of action and greater β@sub_begin2@sub_end-receptor selectivity than metaproterenol, isoetharine, and isoproterenol. Cromolyn is a first-line prophylactic agent for asthma management. Atropine is indicated for maintenance therapy of chronic asthma and in combination with the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-receptor agonists for therapy of acute asthma; ipratropium bromide is a new agent similar to atropine but with substantially fewer adverse effects. Acute and chronic asthma may be managed by aerosol administration of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-receptor agonists, cromolyn, and atropine, alone or in combination. Inhalation is the preferred route of drug delivery because small doses of medication provide maximal therapeutic benefit with minimal adverse effects.

doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2018.08.012
Title:Surfactant protein B (SP-B) enhances the cellular siRNA delivery of proteolipid coated nanogels for inhalation therapy
Authors:P. MerckxL. De BackerL. Van HoeckeR. GuagliardoM. EchaideP. BaatsenB. OlmedaX. SaelensJ. Pérez-GilS.C. De SmedtK. Raemdonck
Absract:Despite the many advantages of small interfering RNA (siRNA) inhalation therapy and a growing prevalence of respiratory pathologies, its clinical translation is severely hampered by inefficient intracellular delivery. To this end, we previously developed hybrid nanoparticles consisting of an siRNA-loaded nanosized hydrogel core (nanogel) coated with Curosurf® a clinically used pulmonary surfactant (PS). Interestingly, the PS shell was shown to markedly improve particle stability as well as intracellular siRNA delivery in vitro and in vivo. The major aim of this work was to identify the key molecular components of PS responsible for the enhanced siRNA delivery and evaluate how the complexity of the PS coat could be reduced. We identified surfactant protein B (SP-B) as a potent siRNA delivery enhancer when reconstituted in proteolipid coated hydrogel nanocomposites. Improved cytosolic siRNA delivery was achieved by inserting SP-B into a simplified phospholipid mixture prior to nanogel coating. This effect was observed both in vitro (lung epithelial cell line) and in vivo (murine acute lung injury model), albeit that distinct phospholipids were required to achieve these results. Importantly, the developed nanocomposites have a low in vivo toxicity and are efficiently taken up by resident alveolar macrophages, a main target cell type for treatment of inflammatory pulmonary pathologies. Our results demonstrate the potential of the endogenous protein SP-B as an intracellular siRNA delivery enhancer, paving the way for future design of nanoformulations for siRNA inhalation therapy. Statement of significance: Despite the therapeutic potential of small interfering RNA (siRNA) and a growing prevalence of lung diseases for which innovative therapies are needed, a safe and effective siRNA inhalation therapy remains non-existing due to a lack of suitable formulations. We identified surfactant protein B (SP-B) as a potent enhancer of siRNA delivery by proteolipid coated nanogel formulations in vitro in a lung epithelial cell line. The developed nanocomposites have a low in vivo toxicity and show a high uptake by alveolar macrophages, a main target cell type for treatment of inflammatory pulmonary pathologies. Importantly, in vivo SP-B is also critical for the developed formulation to obtain a significant silencing of TNFα in a murine LPS-induced acute lung injury model.

doi:10.1517/17425247.4.3.235
Title:Metered-dose inhalers: Actuators old and new
Authors:D. Lewis
Absract:The actuator has been the patient interface of the metered-dose inhaler for the past 50 years. The original 1956 design remains a significant influence upon today's actuators and, moreover, its distinct geometry is still recognisable on the market. The actuator has contributed to the metered-dose inhaler's success as a clinically effective and cost-effective device. This review focuses upon developments since the actuator's introduction as an integral part of the metered-dose inhaler and discusses key aspects of its design that influence lung deposition potential. The ability of the actuator to reduce unwanted oropharyngeal drug deposition, facilitate correct patient use and provide valuable patient feedback is highlighted. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1023/A:1013690929173
Title:Increase in the specific surface area of budesonide during storage postmicronization
Authors:V. JoshiS. DwivediG.H. Ward
Absract:Purpose. To evaluate an anomalous increase in the specific surface area of budesonide during storage postmicronization. Methods. Budesonide was micronized using a conventional air-jet mill. Surface areas and total pore volumes were measured using nitrogen sorption. Porosity was measured using mercury intrusion porosimetry. Particle size was measured using laser diffraction. Results. Budesonide exhibited a surface area increase of 22 ± 2% when stored at 25°C following micronization. The rate of surface area increase was lower at 20°C, suggesting a temperature-dependent stress relaxation mechanism for the micronized particles. The increase in surface area was accompanied by: (a) an increase in total pore volume; (b) a shift of the pore size distribution to smaller pore sizes; (c) a decrease in size of particles above ∼1 μm; and (d) an increase in rugosity/surface roughness. Conclusions. Freshly micronized budesonide exhibited an unusual and significant postmicronization increase in specific surface area upon storage under ambient conditions. Postmicronization stress-relief by intraparticle crack formation, crack propagation with time, and particle fracture seems to be the primary mechanism behind this surface area increase.

doi:10.1007/bf03360970
Title:Novel approaches for pharmacotherapy of asthma
Authors:A. Gillissen
Absract:The past years have seen significant advances in the available and future treatments of asthma. The development of newer therapeutic agents can be divided into two groups. One includes advanced compounds or formulations which are already in use or which have been excessively tested in the past such as selective phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors, novel thromboxane A2 receptor antagonists, steroids with a half-life of less than 5 min (softs steroids) or combinations of inhalation therapies containing a fixed dose of a modern corticosteroid and a long acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist in one device. The other consists of compounds to inhibit specific parts of the complex immunologic inflammation process typically found in the bronchial tree of asthma patients. These are - among others - inhibitors of Th@sub_begin2@sub_end cytokines, chemokine and immunoglobulin inhibitors. Thus, therapy of asthma will be more discriminative in the foreseeable future. This review gives a detailed overview of new trends in the pharmacotherapy of asthma.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(99)00137-4
Title:Modulation of aerosol clouds produced by pressurised inhalation aerosols
Authors:G. BrambillaD. GandertonR. GarziaD. LewisB. MeakinP. Ventura
Absract:The inclusion of non-volatile components such as glycerol or polyethylene glycol in hydrofluoralkane (HFA) solution formulations for pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs), greatly increases the particle size of the aerosol. Cloud characteristics can be further modulated by permuting this factor with the choice of propellant and the dimensions of the actuator, to give a chosen fine particle dose and particle diameter. This principle has been used to design solutions which closely match the performance of chlorofluorocarbon based suspension formulations containing beclomethasone dipropionate, budesonide and ipratropium bromide as assessed for pharmaceutical equivalence using the Andersen Cascade impactor. Copyright (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.3109/03639049809088530
Title:Comparative evaluation of surfactant and hydrophobizing agent concentration in relation to the optimal particle size of metered-dose inhalers
Authors:L.T. FedinaR. ZelkóL.I. FedinaZs. SzabadosM. Szántó
Absract:The aim of the present study was to formulate stabilized suspension- type metered-dose inhalation aerosols, and to examine the connection between the stabilizing additives and the optimal particle size. For the stabilization of the suspended particles, hydrophilic- and hydrophobic-type additives were applied. Oleil oleate was selected as a hydrophilic anionic surfactant, and the hydrophobizing agent was dimethyl siloxane polymer. The effect of the amount of the applied hydrophilic and hydrophobic additives on the optimal particle size was modeled by a second-order polynomial equation fitted to the data gathered by a face-centered central composite statistical design. We found that if the proper type and amount of additives are selected, it is possible to acquire the therapeutically best composition.

pui:25227898
Title:Clinical pharmacology of HFA134a
Authors:G.P. Ventresca
Absract:The safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the chlorine-free propellant HFA134a were assessed in healthy subjects after single and repeat doses. Absorption and disposition were investigated in healthy subjects and severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients using labelled HFA134a. There were no clinically significant changes in vital signs, ECG, pulmonary function tests and laboratory parameters measured. No serious adverse events were reported. In both subjects and patients HFA134a was mainly eliminated by exhalation within the first few minutes after administration and was distributed throughout the body with no obvious accumulation in any specific region. HFA134a was rapidly absorbed after inhalation with dose-related blood concentrations which declined rapidly after dosing (t 1/2 =31 min). Metabolism was not a significant route of elimination of HFA134a. Studies were also performed with salmeterol and salbutamol MDIs reformulated with HFA134a. The results showed that these MDIs were safe and well tolerated in healthy subjects and gave a similar pharmacodynamic response to the current MDIs.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2018.08.012
Title:The potential to treat lung cancer via inhalation of repurposed drugs
Authors:W.-H. LeeC.-Y. LooM. GhadiriC.-R. LeongP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Lung cancer is a highly invasive and prevalent disease with ineffective first-line treatment and remains the leading cause of cancer death in men and women. Despite the improvements in diagnosis and therapy, the prognosis and outcome of lung cancer patients is still poor. This could be associated with the lack of effective first-line oncology drugs, formation of resistant tumors and non-optimal administration route. Therefore, the repurposing of existing drugs currently used for different indications and the introduction of a different method of drug administration could be investigated as an alternative to improve lung cancer therapy. This review describes the rationale and development of repositioning of drugs for lung cancer treatment with emphasis on inhalation. The review includes the current progress of repurposing non-cancer drugs, as well as current chemotherapeutics for lung malignancies via inhalation. Several potential non-cancer drugs such as statins, itraconazole and clarithromycin, that have demonstrated preclinical anti-cancer activity, are also presented. Furthermore, the potential challenges and limitations that might hamper the clinical translation of repurposed oncology drugs are described.

doi:10.1164/ajrccm.157.2.9705025
Title:Automatic actuation of a dry powder inhaler into a nonelectrostatic spacer
Authors:H. Bisgaard
Absract:This article describes a new 'automatic spacer' device, which has been developed to improve the delivery of inhaled medication to young children. In the device, a dry powder inhaler (DPI) is mechanically actuated into a nonelectrostatic spacer, producing an aerosol cloud of fine drug particles (aerodynamic diameter, < 4.7 μm) with a long haft-life. The new device combines the principal advantages of the conventional spacer and the DPI. It has the potential to provide a high ratio between lung dose and pharyngeal dose, without need for coordination or forced inhalation, and it avoids exposure of the patient to the additives and propellants used in pressurized metered dose inhalers. Studies with the protototype device show a high yield of fine drug particles in the aerosol (mass median aerodynamic diameter, 2.8 μm), a high repeatability of drug delivery owing to the mechanical nature of the actuation (relative standard deviation, 12%), and a prolonged residence time of the fine particle aerosol (haft-life of the fallout of the fine particles, 82 s). These features should prove advantageous in the treatment of young children with inhaled medication.

pui:41153432
Title:Use of recrystallized lactose as carrier for inhalation powder of interferon α2b
Authors:R.G. JiangW.S. PanC.L. WangH. Liu
Absract:The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the effects of physical properties of the carrier on the in vitro deposition performance of dry powder inhalations (DPIs) of recombination human Interferon α2b (IFN α2b). Recrystallized lactose was used as the carrier. Inverse gas chromatography (IGC) was used to assess the surface energy, and atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to assess the roughness and topography of the carrier. In vitro performance of the powder blends was strongly correlated to the physical properties of the carrier. Plotting emitted dose (%) vs. flow rate and fine particle fraction vs. surface energy, yielded an R@sup_begin2@sup_end value of 0.9621 and 0.9146, respectively.

doi:10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.2018025781
Title:Inhalational drug delivery in pulmonary aspergillosis
Authors:R. KaurR. KaurC. SinghS. KaurA.K. GoyalK.K. SinghB. Singh Bhoop
Absract:Pulmonary infections have long represented one of the major threats to humans. These vary from acute to chronic conditions, depending upon the underlying disease of the airways. Pulmonary aspergillosis (PMAP) has raised vital concerns in the immunocompromised patients. The fungal infection is difficult to diagnose in the early stages, often making the disease more complicated. Currently, three classes of antifungal agents are available on the market for the treatment of pulmonary infections. These agents are available in oral and intravenous forms only, which limits the availability of therapeutic concentrations of drug in the lungs for longer durations. Consequently, this leads to therapeutic failure and/or resistance of the organism(s) towards the antifungal agents because the optimum amount of drug does not reach the infection site. To combat the issues associated with the conventional regimens, inhalation of antifungal agents is gaining importance because administration to the lungs offers huge advantages of localized and targeted delivery. A wide range of inhalational devices such as nebulizers, dry powder inhalers, and metered dose inhalers are available on the market to deliver drug molecules to the lungs effectively. However, their clinical utility is limited to conditions such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and cystic fibrosis only. For a few decades, inhalation therapy has also been gaining importance to treat infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and aspergillosis, though more research efforts are required to make the transition from bench to bedside. The current review provides an explicit account of the potential role of inhalation drug delivery in PMAP.

doi:10.1164/rccm.200707-1121OC
Title:Inhaled agonists of soluble guanylate cyclase induce selective pulmonary vasodilation
Authors:O.V. EvgenovD.S. KohaneK.D. BlochJ.-P. StaschG.P. VolpatoE. BellasN.V. EvgenovE.S. BuysM.J. GnothA.R. GravelineR. LiuD.R. HessR. LangerW.M. Zapol
Absract:Rationale: Nitric oxide-independent agonists of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) have been developed. Objectives:We tested whether inhalation of novel dry-powder microparticle formulations containing sGC stimulators (BAY 41-2272, BAY 41-8543) or an sGC activator (BAY 58-2667) would produce selective pulmonary vasodilation in lambswith acute pulmonary hypertension. We also evaluated the combined administration of BAY 41-8543 microparticles and inhaled nitric oxide (iNO). Finally, we examined whether inhaling BAY 58-2667microparticles would produce pulmonary vasodilation when the response to iNO is impaired. Methods: In awake, spontaneously breathing lambs instrumented with vascular catheters and a tracheostomy tube, U-46619 was infused intravenously to increase mean pulmonary arterial pressure to 35 mm Hg. Measurements and Main Results: Inhalation of microparticles composed of either BAY 41-2272, BAY 41-8543, or BAY 58-2667 and excipients (dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, albumin, lactose) produced dose-dependent pulmonary vasodilation and increased transpulmonary cGMP release without significant effect on mean arterial pressure. Inhalation of microparticles containing BAY 41-8543 or BAY 58-2667 increased systemic arterial oxygenation. Themagnitude and duration of pulmonary vasodilation induced by iNO were augmented after inhaling BAY 41-8543 microparticles. Intravenous administration of 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), which oxidizes the prosthetic heme group of sGC, markedly reduced the pulmonary vasodilator effect of iNO. In contrast, pulmonary vasodilation and transpulmonary cGMP release induced by inhaling BAY 58-2667 microparticles were greatly enhanced after treatment with ODQ. Conclusions: Inhalation of microparticles containing agonists of sGC may providean effective novel treatment for patients with pulmonary hypertension, particularly when responsiveness to iNO is impaired by oxidation of sGC.

pui:604254737
Title:Investigating the de-agglomeration profiles of dpi formulations
Authors:S.R.B. BeharaD. MortonI. LarsonP. StewartP. Kippax
Absract:In this paper, Srinivas Ravindra Babu Behara, PhD, Researcher; David Morton, PhD, Associate Professor; Ian Larson, PhD, Senior Lecturer; and Peter Stewart, PhD, Deputy Dean & Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, all of Monash University; and Paul Kippax, PhD, Product Group Manager, Malvern Instruments, describe the use of laser diffraction to analyse dry powder behaviour. The authors introduce relative de-agglomeration versus flow rate profiles, which represent an effective graphical means to summarise the outcome of the complex interplay between the applied aerosolisation energy and the cohesive forces opposing dispersion in different powder formulations emitted from different inhalation devices. The resulting data can be used as a screening method for developing a formulation strategy for a particular active substance.

doi:10.1016/j.drudis.2013.11.013
Title:Alternative carriers in dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:Y. RahimpourM. KouhsoltaniH. Hamishehkar
Absract:The aerosolization efficiency of a powder is highly dependent on carrier characteristics, such as particle size distribution, shape and surface properties. The main objective in the inhalation field is to achieve a high and reproducible pulmonary deposition. This can be provided by successful carrier selection and careful process optimization for carrier modification. Lactose is the most common and frequently used carrier in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. But lactose shows some limitations in formulation with certain drugs and peptides that prohibit its usage as a carrier in DPI formulations. Here, we criticality review the most important alternative carriers to lactose with merits, demerits and applications in DPI formulations. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.

doi:10.1093/bja/88.5.624
Title:II. Effects of anaesthetic agents on airway smooth muscles
Authors:M. Yamakage
Absract:The aerosolization efficiency of a powder is highly dependent on carrier characteristics, such as particle size distribution, shape and surface properties. The main objective in the inhalation field is to achieve a high and reproducible pulmonary deposition. This can be provided by successful carrier selection and careful process optimization for carrier modification. Lactose is the most common and frequently used carrier in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. But lactose shows some limitations in formulation with certain drugs and peptides that prohibit its usage as a carrier in DPI formulations. Here, we criticality review the most important alternative carriers to lactose with merits, demerits and applications in DPI formulations. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.

pui:352005868
Title:Pharmacokinetics of insulin aerosols generated by a capillary aerosol generator
Authors:M. HindleJ. VenitzP.D. Lilly
Absract:The pharmacokinetics of three Insulin formulations aerosolized using the capillary aerosol generator and administered via intra-tracheal inhalation to rats was characterized. Formulation A was a 1.8%w/v insulin aqueous solution (1.6 IU/kg), Formulation B was the commercial Humulin R formulation (3.8 IU/kg) and Formulation C was a 1.0%w/v insulin in Ethanol:0.1N HCI (85:15%v/v) (3.6 IU/kg). The mean (SD) AUC@sub_begin180@sub_end for Formulations A, B, and C was 2394 (1100), 6646 (3762) and 2960 (463) μ.IU/ml. × min, respectively. C@sub_beginmax@sub_end ranged from 88.8 μIU/mL for Formulation B, to 20.4 μ.IU/mL for Formulation A. The mean absolute pulmonary bioavallability for Formulations A, B and C was 7%, 10% and 4%, respectively. Differences in aerosol particle size, together with the presence of varied excipients, may explain the altered pharmacokinetic profile between formulations.

doi:10.1164/arrd.1984.129.5.723
Title:Use of spacers to facilitate inhaled corticosteroid treatment of asthma
Authors:J.H. ToogoodJ. BaskervilleB. Jennings
Absract:Budesonide, a topically active corticosteroid, was administered in doses of 400 and 1,600 μg/day to 35 asthmatic adults, using a standard inhalation device or a tube or cone spacer. The spacers reduced oropharyngeal candidiasis by an amount equivalent to a 90% reduction in drug dose (p = < 0.005) and doubled the drug's overall antiasthmatic potency (ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, p = 0.05) without significantly increasing its overall effect on blood eosinophils (p = 0.14) or the A.M. serum cortisol (p = 0.12). Steroid-induced neutrophilia increased by an amount approximating that produced by an extra half tablet of prednisone per day (p = 0.002). Both the airways and systemic effects of the spacers were greater in patients who had small airways dysfunction present prior to the study. The data suggest an increase in intrapulmonary drug deposition during spacer treatment without a material shift in regional delivery within the lung. Spacers should be particularly useful for patients whose response to inhaled steroid is compromised by dose-limiting oropharyngeal complications. They can also reduce drug costs. They should be used selectively in children until their effect on regional intrapulmonary drug deposition has been more clearly defined.

doi:10.1002/jps.21195
Title:The influence of drug morphology on the aerosolisation efficiency of dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:H. AdiD. TrainiH.-K. ChanP.M. Young
Absract:The physicochemical properties of two forms of spray dried bovine serum albumin (BSA) have been investigated using particle sizing, surface energy measurement, atomic force microscopy (AFM) and colloid probe microscopy. The BSA powder had similar particle size distributions and surface energy but significantly different morphologies and roughness, classified as smooth and corrugated BSA. Adhesion forces between the corrugated BSA and α-lactose monohydrate indicated median adhesion forces were significantly less than for smooth/carrier interaction forces. These observations correlated well with aerosolisation from BSA/carrier blends, where the corrugated BSA particles gave a higher fine particle fraction than the smooth BSA, suggesting reduced BSA/carrier adhesion and increased drug liberation. The use of corrugated drug particle morphology in drug carrier DPI systems may lead to improved aerosol performance through reduced drug carrier contact area. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

pui:46331760
Title:Human insulin inhalation powder (Exubera) for diabetes
Authors:O. HilasD.C. Ezzo
Absract:Drs. Hilas and Ezzo review inhaled insulin powder (Exubera) for patients with diabetes.

doi:10.1089/089426802760292717
Title:Aerosolization of protein solutions using thermal inkjet technology
Authors:S. GoodallN. ChewK. ChanD. AuriacM.J. Waters
Absract:Vapotronics Inc. is developing the thermal inkjet (TIJ) technology used extensively in the printer industry to create a digital aerosol inhaler for the inhalation of therapeutics for local and systemic delivery. The operation of thermal inkjet printers requires generation of high temperatures and vaporization of the liquid formulation to effect droplet ejection. A study was conducted to develop formulations that would permit the generation of aerosols of therapeutic proteins without damage to the inkjet system or degradation of the proteins. Two proteins, human growth hormone and insulin, were formulated and aerosolized. The aerosol was collected and subjected to assays to compare the physicochemical and biological activities of these proteins before and after aerosolization. In each case, there was no significant changes to the proteins as a result of the aerosolization, providing evidence that TIJ can be used for aerosolizing solutions of protein therapeutics.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(94)00383-G
Title:Fractal morphology of drug aggregates in aerosol propellant suspensions
Authors:C. BowerC. WashingtonT.S. Purewal
Absract:The study and formulation of drug suspensions in aerosol propellants is frequently hampered by lack of information concerning the structure and properties of the aggregated drug particles in suspension. We describe apparatus for the photomicrographic study of aggregates in suspension of volatile liquids, and apply this technique to measure the fractal properties of the drug aggregates. The boundary fractal dimensions of such flocs indicate that the model drugs studied (lactose and salbutamol sulphate) aggregate by a diffusion limited cluster-cluster mechanism in the absence of surfactants. However in the presence of Span 80, a typical surfactant used in aerosol systems, the morphology of the aggregates is significantly altered. The tenuous convoluted flocs become more compact and spherical. This is characterized by a reduction in the boundary fractal dimension, suggesting that considerable floc rearrangement occurs during aggregation. This implies that the surfactant reduces bonding forces between drug particles, allowing dynamic changes in floc structure.

pui:351212052
Title:Basics of compounding
Authors:L.V. Allen Jr.C.C. Okeke
Absract:United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding - Sterile Preparations pertains to all preadministration manipulations and procedures involved in the preparation of sterile compounds for application, implantation, infusion, inhalation, injection, insertion, instillation, or irrigation, including preparation, storage, and transportation. The chapter does not pertain to actual clinical administration of compounded sterile preparations to patients. The intent of Chapter 〈797〉 is simply to prevent patient harm and fatalities that may result from nonsterility, excessive endotoxin load, large content errors in strength of correct ingredients, or the presence of incorrect ingredients. Because the achievement of sterility requires that facilities meet minimum cleanliness standards, that personnel be trained adequately and undergo periodic testing and training in sterilization techniques, and that appropriate principles and practices be applied to sustain solution stability, compliance with Chapter 〈797〉 should be the goal of any facility where sterile preparations are compounded. Many pharmacies have already achieved compliance with Chapter 〈797〉, and those that have already met the new standards seem to support them strongly. This article discusses procedures for verification of the accuracy, sterility, and sterilization of compounded preparations. The importance of United States Pharmacopeia Chapters 〈71〉, 〈1035〉, and 〈1211〉, all of which contain vital information, is also discussed.

pui:358455147
Title:Considerations for implementing United States Pharmacopeia chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical compounding - Sterile preparations, part 9: Immediate-use compounded sterile preparations
Authors:L.V. Allen Jr.C.C. Okeke
Absract:United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding-Sterile Preparations pertains to all preadministration manipulations and procedures involved in the preparation of sterile compounds for application, implantations, infusion, inhalation, injection, insertion, instillation, or irrigation, including preparation, storage, and transportation. The chapter does not pertain to actual clinical administration of compounded sterile preparations to patients. The intent of Chapter <797> is simply to prevent patient harm and fatalities that may result from nonsterility, excessive endotoxin load, large content errors in strength of correct ingredients, or the presence of incorrect ingredients. Because the achievement of sterility requires that facilities meet the minimum cleanliness standards, that personnel be trained adequately and undergo periodic testing and training in sterilization techniques, and that appropriate principles and practices be applied to sustain solution stability, compliance with Chapter <797>, and those that have already met the new standards seem to support them strongly. Chapter <797> sets standards for all compounded sterile preparations, including those for immediate use. This article discusses the techniques and standards used when immediate-use compounded sterile preparations are needed.

pui:350047793
Title:Glucose-sensing pulmonary delivery of human insulin to the systemic circulation of rats
Authors:E. KarathanasisR. BhavaneA.V. Annapragada
Absract:In an attempt to achieve post-inhalation self-regulated insulin release, we constructed a microparticle agglomerate of nano-sized liposomal particles, with the agglomeration facilitated by cross-linkages capable of cleavage by glucose. The particles exhibited a small aerodynamic diameter within the human respirable range, but a large geometric diameter that prevents macrophage uptake and clearance. Upon intratracheal instillation of the "glucose-sensitive" microparticle into the lungs of rats, hyperglycemic events triggered an acceleration of the release of insulin achieving normoglycemia shortly after "sensing" the elevated systemic glucose. This work is a demonstration of an inhalable particle with long residence times in the lungs capable of modulating insulin release based on systemic glucose levels. © 2007 Dove Medical Press Limited. All rights reserved.

pui:30458919
Title:On the problems of drugs administered to lungs
Authors:I. LichnerovaJ. Rak
Absract:The paper reports on the advantages and the problems of pulmonary application of drugs. The tendencies of the substitution of freon propellents in accordance with the environment protection are given. In connection with the powdered inhalant the basic physical aspects are mentioned. The problems of the formulation of interactive mixtures, the factors influencing the adhesion, the rate of friction and the uniformity of distribution of powdered particles in the aerodispersion are also discussed. The principles of operation of representative types of powder inhalators and the appliances of inhalation therapy are described.

doi:10.1183/13993003.03921-2020
Title:User-life of ICS/LABA inhaler devices should be considered when prescribed as relievers
Authors:R.A. PleasantsS.L. TilleyA.J. HickeyO.S. Usmani
Absract:The paper reports on the advantages and the problems of pulmonary application of drugs. The tendencies of the substitution of freon propellents in accordance with the environment protection are given. In connection with the powdered inhalant the basic physical aspects are mentioned. The problems of the formulation of interactive mixtures, the factors influencing the adhesion, the rate of friction and the uniformity of distribution of powdered particles in the aerodispersion are also discussed. The principles of operation of representative types of powder inhalators and the appliances of inhalation therapy are described.

doi:10.1016/j.gtc.2014.02.001
Title:Steroid treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis in adults
Authors:J.A. Alexander
Absract:Topical steroid therapy has been used to treat eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) for more than 15 years. We review the treatment trials of topical steroid therapy in adult patients with EoE. Currently, there is no commercially available preparation designed to deliver the steroid to the esophagus. Current regimens consist of swallowing steroid preparations designed for inhalation treatment for asthma. In the short term, steroids are associated with an approximately 15% to 25% incidence of asymptomatic esophageal candidiasis, but otherwise appear to be well tolerated. © 2014 Elsevier Inc.

pui:36118958
Title:An adolescent and a different substance abuse: Case report
Authors:Ç. HocaoǧluS. Kandil
Absract:Inhalants cheap, available in several forms in most households, easily concealed, legal to possess, and simple to take. They produce a quick high that passes within a few hours, facilitating their use and allowing the users to evade detection or punishment. Adolescents usually gather in small groups to use inhalants and being a user gains entry to the group, socially reinforcing the use. Such gases are volatile hydrocarbons and include toluene, n-hexane, methyl butyl ketone, trichloroethylene, trichloroethane, dichloromethane, gasoline, and butane. The inhalants are associated with many potentially serious adverse effects. The most serious adverse effect is death, which can results from respiratory depression, cardiac arrhytmias, asphyxiations, the aspriration of vomitus, or accidents or injury (for example, by driving while intoxicated with inhalants). Other serious adverse effects associated with long-term inhalant use include irreversible hepatic or renal damage and permanent muscle damage associate with rhabdomyolysis.

doi:10.1097/00000542-198312000-00013
Title:Osmolarity determines the solubility of anesthetics in aqueous solutions at 37°C
Authors:J. LermanM.M. WillisG.A. GregoryE.I. Eger II
Absract:The authors determined whether they could predict accurately the solubility of anesthetics in aqueous solutions at 37°C, knowing the osmolarity and the pH of the solution and the solute composition. The partition coefficients of the four volatile anesthetics, isoflurane, enflurane, halothane, and methoxyflurane, were determined concurrently at 37°C between air and aqueous solutions containing sodium chloride, dextrose, mannitol, or heparin. The osmolarities of these solutions ranged from 0 to 7,000 mOsm/l. The partition coefficients decreased linearly with increasing osmolarity when plotted on a semilogarithmic scale. The effect of osmolarity on the partition coefficient of the alkane anesthetic, halothane, was 20% less (P < 0.001) than the effect of osmolarity on the partition coefficients of the three methyl-ethyl ether anesthetics, isoflurane, enflurane, and methoxyflurane. The solubility of anesthetics in aqueous solutions did not depend on either the molecular structure of the solute or the pH of the solution. The solubility of volatile anesthetics in aqueous solutions at 37° C is inversely and predictably dependent on the osmolarity of the solutions.

doi:10.1089/jam.1996.9.89
Title:Comparative evaluation of therapeutic response to antiasthma drugs: Dry powder vs. conventional aerosol delivery systems
Authors:C.L. Saccar
Absract:Dry powder inhaler (DPI) delivery systems provide advantages over the metered-dose inhaler (MDI) systems. Of the anti-asthma agents studied, most of the trials have focused on the beta adrenergic agonists with a lesser degree of inhaled cromoglycate and corticosteroids. The results of the studies show either similarities or a lesser effect on pulmonary function for the DPI systems but, in most cases, clinical symptoms are comparable. The trials reported vary in the type of controlled designs, doses, and systems evaluated, hence scrutiny of resultant data should follow assessment of methodology in order to clinically interchange these systems in asthmatic patients.

pui:25142135
Title:Easyhaler® multiple dose powder practical - Practical and effective alternative to the pressurized MDI
Authors:M. VidgrenM. SilvastiP. VidgrenH. SormunenK. LaurikainenP. Korhonen
Absract:Due to the depletion of ozone layer linked to CFf propellants used in metered-dose inhalers (MDIs), alternative drug delivery systems for inhalation therapy of bronchial asthma is required. Dry powder inhalers have become a remarkable alternative to the MDIs. The research of powder delivery systems has strongly been focused on developing portable, preloaded multiple- dose powder inhalers, from which patients can reliably inhale several drug doses. Recently, a novel multiple-dose powder inhaler (Easyhaler®) has been developed. Easyhaler® is a suitable drug delivery system for various drugs already available or still under development. Optimum patient compliance is achieved by a design similar to the dose delivery system of the conventional MDI. In addition, the construction of the device allows high dose reproducibility and good in vitro and in vivo deposition of inhaled drug particles. Consequently, equal therapeutic efficacy, safety and tolerability with an MDI is documented in clinical trials. Thus the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, and clinical features as well as the similar mode of use would facilitate a smooth transition from the freon based MDIs to the Easyhaler® multiple-dose powder inhaler.

pui:15149192
Title:The effects of aerosols of carbamylcholine, serotonin and propranolol on the ventilatory response to CO@sub_begin2@sub_end in guinea pigs and comparison with the effects of histamine and sulfuric acid
Authors:M. SchaperY. Alarie
Absract:A new method is introduced to recognize the acute pulmonary effect of airborne contaminants in guinea pigs. The method avoids anaesthesia and invasive techniques and requires minimal restraint of the animal. To recognize the acute pulmonary effect, the inspiratory volume of the animal was increased by continuous inhalation of a mixture containing 10% CO@sub_begin2@sub_end in 18% O@sub_begin2@sub_end and 72% N@sub_begin2@sub_end. Once a plateau increase in inspiratory volume was reached, the aerosol to be studied was added to this mixture and its effect in reducing inspiratory volume measured. By exposing the animals to different exposure concentrations of carbamylcholine, serotonin and propranolol aerosols, concentration-response relationships were obtained which permitted comparison of their potency. Comparisons were also made with histamine and sulfuric acid aerosols previously studies.

doi:10.4155/tde.15.18
Title:Generation of tailored aerosols for inhalative drug delivery employing recent vibrating-mesh nebulizer systems
Authors:A. BohrM. Beck-Broichsitter
Absract:Direct drug delivery to the lungs is considered the gold standard for the treatment of a variety of respiratory diseases, owing to the increased therapeutic selectivity of the inhalative approach. Airborne formulations with defined size characteristics are required to improve the deposition pattern within the airways. In this respect, different nebulizer systems have been conceived, which has enabled the generation of respirable medicament mists. Here, vibrating-mesh technology revealed significant potential to overcome the main shortcomings associated with 'traditional' devices. Tailored orifice dimensions and defined formulation characteristics are of special interest for the generation of suitable aerosol droplets for inhalative purposes. Ongoing developments in device and formulation design will optimize the clinical outcome of inhalative drug delivery under application of vibrating-mesh technology.

doi:10.1185/030079906X132686
Title:Introduction: Inhaled insulins: Potential therapies for diabetes mellitus
Authors:L. Kuitert
Absract:There is no doubt that diabetes is an extensive worldwide problem. Several studies have demonstrated that reducing levels of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end) decreases the risk of developing diabetic complications. Insulin is the most effective glucose-lowering agent available. However, several barriers prevent the initiation and intensification of insulin therapy in patients with diabetes. For example, some studies have shown a delay of up to 5 years in over 50% of patients with type 2 diabetes uncontrolled with oral antidiabetic agents. Alternative noninvasive options for the administration of insulin, such as inhaled human insulin (Exubera; insulin human [rDNA origin] Inhalation Powder) are likely to increase patient acceptance of insulin, improve glycemic control and thus reduce the overall burden of diabetes. © 2006 Librapharm Limited.

doi:10.1136/dtb.2002.401289
Title:Oseltamivir for infleunza
Authors:L. Kuitert
Absract:Oseltamivir (pronounced os-el-ta-mi-veer; Tamiflu - Roche), an oral anti-influenza drug that inhibits influenza virus neuraminidase, is now available in the UK. It has recently been licensed throughout the EU for use, when influenza is circulating in the community, in the treatment of patients with early influenza-like symptoms, and for prophylaxis in people who have had close contact with someone with influenza. Oseltamivir is the second neuraminidase inhibitor to be licensed in the UK, the other being zanamivir (Relenza - GlaxoSmithKline), which is taken by inhalation and licensed only for treatment. Previously, we concluded that there was insufficient evidence that treatment with zanamivir prevented serious complications in people most at risk from influenza to recommend its use. Here we review the efficacy and safety of oseltamivir and discuss its role in the management of influenza.

pui:28409151
Title:Influence of the auxiliary materials on the proportion of the effective particle size of metered-dose suspension-type aerosols
Authors:L. FedinaR. ZelkóL. FedinaZ. SzabadosM. SzántóG. Vakulya
Absract:The aim of the present study was to formulate suspension type inhalation aerosols by various types of auxiliary materials, and to select the formulation with the highest proportion of the effective particle size. The examined suspension type aerosol contained sodium cromoglycate as an active compound. For the stabilization of the suspension, the applied surface active ingredients were oleic acid and oleyl oleate, and dimethyl siloxane polymer was selected as hydrophobizing agent. Factorial design was used for the optimization of the experimental results. On the basis of our results, the correct types and amounts of auxiliary materials can be selected to obtain the therapeutically effective formulation.

doi:10.1007/978-3-030-57177-1_12
Title:Interfaces in Protein Drug Delivery: Device Concern
Authors:S. JordanJ. CurtisL. Waxman
Absract:Effective oral delivery is difficult for many protein drugs, as high-molecular-weight proteins do not easily cross the mucosal membrane and degradation in the gastrointestinal tract is common. Thus, alternative routes of delivery that often require delivery devices are utilized for administration of protein drug, including injection, inhalation, and implants. The protein may be in contact with the device surface during shipping and storage, as well as through delivery. Mechanical stresses on the protein, such as agitation, will increase the contact of the protein with the device surface, as well as with the air at the air/water interface, potentially leading to increased aggregation and reduced efficacy. In some cases, the device may be treated with lubricants that may also affect protein stability. The various stressors on proteins in devices will be discussed along with potential consequences and mitigation strategies.

doi:10.1385/MB:23:1:51
Title:Aerosol gene therapy
Authors:A. GautamJ.C. WaldrepC.L. Densmore
Absract:Gene therapy is a novel field of medicine that holds tremendous therapeutic potential for a variety of human diseases. Targeting of therapeutic gene delivery vectors to the lungs can be beneficial for treatment of various pulmonary diseases such as lung cancer, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, and asthma. Inhalation therapy using formulations delivered as aerosols targets the lungs through the pulmonary airways. The instant access and the high ratio of the drug deposited within the lungs noninvasively are the major advantages of aerosol delivery over other routes of administration. Delivery of gene formulations via aerosols is a relatively new field, which is less than a decade old. However, in this short period of time significant developments in aerosol delivery systems and vectors have resulted in major advances toward potential applications for various pulmonary diseases. This article will review these advances and the potential future applications of aerosol gene therapy technology.

pui:26134881
Title:The physico-chemical basis of radiolabelling metered dose inhalers with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc
Authors:S.J. Farr
Absract:Over the past decade, a number of different approaches have been proposed for the radiolabelling of metered dose inhalers (MDIs) in order to permit gamma scintigraphic imaging of emitted aerosols following inhaled administration. More recently, methods have been described for the indirect @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labelling of drugs incorporated into commercial MDI products. This paper attempts to rationalise such methods from a surface chemical perspective in order to: 1) elucidate the mechanism of association of the radiolabel and drug; 2) predict the appropriateness of the techniques to all MDI products and; 3) propose in vitro testing methods to validate the labelling efficiency prior to in vivo evaluation.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13111855
Title:Targeting of inhaled therapeutics to the small airways: Nanoleucine carrier formulations
Authors:D.P. MillerT.E. TararaJ.G. Weers
Absract:Current dry powder formulations for inhalation deposit a large fraction of their emitted dose in the upper respiratory tract where they contribute to off-target adverse effects and variability in lung delivery. The purpose of the current study is to design a new formulation concept that more effectively targets inhaled dry powders to the large and small airways. The formulations are based on adhesive mixtures of drug nanoparticles and nanoleucine carrier particles prepared by spray drying of a co-suspension of leucine and drug particles from a nonsolvent. The physicochemical and aerosol properties of the resulting formulations are presented. The formulations achieve 93% lung delivery in the Alberta Idealized Throat model that is independent of inspiratory flow rate and relative humidity. Largely eliminating URT deposition with a particle size larger than solution pMDIs is expected to improve delivery to the large and small airways, while minimizing alveolar deposition and particle exhalation.

doi:10.7573/dic.212596
Title:Easyhaler®: An overview of an inhaler device for day-to-day use in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:F. Lavorini
Absract:Inhalation therapy is likely to continue to dominate asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treatment. The pressurised metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) accounts for most of the global inhaler market, but this kind of device is difficult to use properly. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) have several advantages over pMDIs: they are breath-activated, easy and convenient to use, and environmentally friendly. The Easyhaler® (Orion; Finland) is a multidose reservoir-type DPI developed to efficiently deliver a wide range of medications, including fixed-dose combinations of bronchodilators and corticosteroids. Easyhaler shares a similar shape with the pMDI, and its performance is unaffected by moisture, dropping, vibration, and freezing/thawing. For these reasons, Easyhaler may be considered one of the most convenient inhalers for daily use in patients with asthma or COPD.

doi:10.1002/jps.23168
Title:Development of budesonide nanocluster dry powder aerosols: Processing
Authors:N. El-GendyP. SelvamP. SoniC. Berkland
Absract:Aerosolized medicine is one of the fastest growing areas in the pharmaceutical industry. Dry powder aerosols of pharmaceutical compounds are particularly attractive for the prevention and treatment of respiratory diseases but are also emerging as a treatment option for systemic diseases. Engineering particles in dry powder formulations can overcome many of the limitations of traditional inhaled pharmaceuticals. Here, a wet milling process for producing agglomerated budesonide nanoparticles (i.e., "NanoClusters") was explored. Parameters such as milling time and drug concentration were investigated, and the aerosol performance of dried budesonide NanoClusters was characterized. The wet milling process was able to produce aerosol particles composed entirely of budesonide. High emitted fraction and a large fine particle fraction suggested that the NanoCluster budesonide formulation would offer highly efficient delivery of drug throughout the lung. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.1080/02770900802569942
Title:Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of inhaled glucocorticoids
Authors:J. PaddenD. SkonerG. Hochhaus
Absract:Inhaled corticosteroids are used widely to treat asthma. A number of different steroids and inhalation devices are available. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the different inhaled corticosteroids may influence their efficacy and safety profiles. Properties of an ideal inhaled corticosteroid include low oropharyngeal deposition, low oral bioavailability, high lung deposition, long pulmonary residence times, high receptor affinity, high plasma protein binding, and efficient systemic clearance. Attention to these parameters might help clinicians optimally balance between the safety and efficacy of inhaled corticosteroids in treating individual patients with asthma. Copyright © 2008 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.2174/1381612003398771
Title:Regional pharmacokinetics of orally administered PET tracers
Authors:A.J. FischmanA.A. BonabR.H. Rubin
Absract:Positron emission tomography (PET) is currently the most useful imaging technique for noninvasive measurement of drug pharmacokinetics regionally in a variety of tissues. Over the past decade, PET measurements have provided many critical insights about the tissue distribution of several classes of drugs; neuro leptics, antimicrobials, antineoplastics, etc. PET measurements can be performed after any route of drug administration, intravenous, inhalation or oral, however, intravenously administered drugs have been the most extensively evaluated. Studies of orally administered drugs are clearly of great interest; however, formulation issues have precluded widespread applications in these areas. In this report, we discuss the unique problems associated with studying orally administered drugs and review the results of recent studies performed in our laboratory.

pui:28386901
Title:Methacholine use in pulmonary function tests for asthma diagnosis
Authors:M. CamusC. BernardM. Sinegre
Absract:Pulmonary function tests, using bronchoconstrictors like methacholine chloride, a parasympathomimetic agent, are used in clinical practice to diagnose asthma. A literature review, manual and with data basis, was performed to establish a monograph of the product, based on its diagnostic use. Nine handbooks and twenty-eight abstracts were selected for this study. Methacholine chloride is given by inhalation at growing dosages. It provokes bronchial hyperactivity. The bronchospasm is measured to appreciate asthma intensity. Methacholine chloride represents the major agent which can be used in asthma diagnosis because of its advantages compared to the other drugs which can also be used (acetylcholine, histamine, carbachol). Unfortunately the literature review did not show any informations concerning the pediatric use of the product, its toxicological effects and some pharmacokinetic parameters. In France, methacholine chloride utilization is limited. The drug does not have any agreement and its use needs medical and technical supports which can only be given by hospital management.

doi:10.1378/chest.90.5.722
Title:Bronchodilator effect of theophylline preparations and aerosol fenoterol in stable asthma
Authors:H. MagnussenR. JorresV. Hartmann
Absract:To compare the acute bronchodilator effect of increasing doses of intravenous theophylline and inhaled beta adrenergic agonists, we administered intravenous theophylline dissolved in ethylenediamine or proxyphylline and diprophylline or placebo in a double blind fashion to nine asthmatics on three different days. At each session, 100 mg theophylline or placebo were given during each of five subsequent periods of 30 minutes' duration and followed by inhalation of 0.4 mg fenoterol. In contrast to placebo, 500 mg theophylline in ethylenediamine or proxyphylline and diprophylline significantly decreased mean specific airway resistance (SRaw in cmH@sub_begin2@sub_endO·s) from 31.2 to 23.6 or 34.2 to 23.5 at theophylline serum concentrations of 14.4 or 16.6 mg/L, respectively. Fenoterol lowered SRaw to about 40% of the respective baseline values independent of theophylline or placebo pretreatment. We conclude that the acute bronchodilator effect of theophylline is weak in comparison to inhaled beta agonists. Furthermore, proxyphylline and diprophylline cause a weak but not significant bronchodilation when compared to ethylenediamine.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2014.06.005
Title:Drug/polymer nanoparticles prepared using unique spray nozzles and recent progress of inhaled formulation
Authors:T. OzekiT. Tagami
Absract:Inhaled formulations are promising for pulmonary and systemic non-pulmonary diseases. Functional engineered particles including drugs and drug-loaded nanocarriers have been anticipated because they can improve drug delivery efficacy against target sites in the lungs or blood. In this review, unique spray nozzles (e.g., four-fluid spray nozzle and two-solution mixing type nozzle) for the preparation of nanocomposite particles which mean microparticles containing drug nanoparticles are described. These nozzles can produce nanocomposite particles in one-step and their spray drying system is suitable for scaling-up. Nanocomposite particles are useful in improving drug absorption and delivery efficacy against alveolar macrophages. In addition, recent studies on several pulmonary diseases (tuberculosis, lung cancer, cystic fibrosis, pneumonia, vaccine and others) and related inhaled formulations were also reviewed.

pui:8099585
Title:Selective GLC determination of epinephrine, isoproterenol, and phenylephrine in pharmaceutical dosage forms
Authors:J.R. WatsonR.C. Lawrence
Absract:A simple, specific GLC analytical procedure for the quantitation of epinephrine, isoproterenol, and phenylephrine in commercial tablets, powders, inhalation solutions, ophthalmic and nasal drops, and injectable preparations is presented. Samples are taken to dryness where required, the dried residue is reacted with an appropriate trimethylsilylating reagent, and the derivatives are eluted from a methyl silicone column using temperature programming. Quantitation of the flame-ionization detector signal is achieved relative to the dibenzyl succinate internal standard by an electronic integrator. The results obtained by applying the method to the analysis of each of the three drugs in several simulated decomposed mixtures were in good agreement with theoretical values, even at impurity levels of up to 80% by weight. When applied to commercial formulations, the procedure was feasible for tablets, powders, and solutions at drug concentrations of 0.2% or greater. The commonly incorporated buffering and antioxidant excipients did not interfere.

doi:10.3346/jkms.2004.19.2.289
Title:Anaphylaxis caused by Benzalkonium in a nebulizer solution
Authors:S.-H. KimY. Ahn
Absract:Benzalkonium chloride (BAC) is commonly used as a bactericidal preservative in nebulizer solutions, and can cause paradoxical bronchoconstriction following nebulizing therapy in some asthmatics. We describe a case of anaphylactic shock in a 23-yr-old asthmatic woman following an intradermal skin test with a salbutamol solution containing BAC. Since she complained of cough and dyspnea after inhalation therapy with a nebulizer solution, we conducted an intradermal skin test using the same solution, which contained BAC. About 10 min later, the patient reported dizziness, palpitations, and dyspnea. On examination, tachycardia, tachypnea, and hypotension were found. She was resuscitated with a subcutaneous injection of epinephrine and an infusion of saline. One month later, we conducted a bronchial provocation test with BAC, and she showed a positive response.

doi:10.1007/s002280050607
Title:Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of formoterol in healthy volunteers after a single high dose of Foradil dry powder inhalation via aerolizer(TM)
Authors:J.B. LecaillonG. KaiserM. PalmisanoJ. MorganG. Della Cioppa
Absract:Objective: The pharmacokinetics of the long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist formoterol fumarate, which is a racemate of the (S,S)- and (R,R)-enantiomers were evaluated in 12 healthy (eight male, four female) volunteers after a single inhaled high dose of 120 μg of formoterol fumarate. The tolerability and safety were also assessed. Methods: Each volunteer inhaled the single 120-μg dose through the Aerolizer device within 2-5 min, using ten 12-μg dry powder capsules for inhalation. Formoterol, i.e., the sum of both enantiomers, was determined in plasma over 24 h, whereas the separate enantiomers were determined in urine over 48 h. Incidence, seriousness and severity of adverse experiences, electrocardiogram (ECG), including the corrected QT interval (QTc) calculation, systolic blood pressure, heart rate, and plasma potassium levels were recorded. Results: In nine of the 12 volunteers, the peak plasma concentration of formoterol was observed already at 5 min after inhalation. The absorption kinetics were complex, as depicted by multiple peaks or shoulders within 0.5-6 h after inhalation. Mean with (SD; n = 12) of maximum concentration (C(max)) and area under the curve (AUC) of formoterol in plasma were 266 (108) pmol·l@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 1330 (398) pmol·h·l@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively. The moderate inter-individual variability in systemic exposure of formoterol reflects the homogeneous pharmacokinetics of the drug. A predominant slow elimination of formoterol from plasma with a mean half-life (t(1/2)) of 10 h was demonstrated. Assuming linear kinetics in plasma suggested by urinary data, the steady-state trough plasma levels of formoterol for a b.i.d, dosing regimen are predicted to amount to 20% of C(max). In urine, mean with (SD; n = 10) of the amount excreted over 48 h was 3.61 (0.89)% of dose for the pharmacologically active (R,R)-enantiomer and 4.80 (1.33)% of dose for the (S,S)-enantiomer. The terminal half-lives calculated from the excretion rate-time curves, i.e., 13.9 h and 12.3 h for the (R,R)- and (S,S)-enantiomer, respectively, confirm the slow elimination of formoterol from plasma. The dose inhaled was 10 times the most frequently recommended dose (12 μg) and 5 times the highest recommended dose (24 μg). Ten of 12 subjects experienced mild and transient nervousness. Pulse readings demonstrated the maximum mean increase of 25.8 beats, min@sup_begin-1@sup_end at 6 h. The mean maximum QTc increase was 25 msec at 6 h. Pulse and QTc values returned to baseline or close to baseline values at 24 h or before. Potassium levels in plasma decreased in eight out of 12 subjects; the lowest mean value was 3.53 mmol·l@sup_begin-1@sup_end at 2 h post-dose. The lowest individual potassium measurement was 2.95 mmol·l@sup_begin-1@sup_end between 15 min and 6 h. By 8 h post-dose all values had returned to within the normal ranges. Conclusions: The extremely fast appearance of formoterol in plasma shows the predominance of airways absorption shortly after inhalation. Due to a terminal elimination half-life of about 10 h, sustained systemic concentrations of formoterol are predicted for a twice daily treatment regimen without noteworthy accumulation. The excreted amounts in percent of dose of the enantiomers in urine and the enantiomer ratio are similar to data reported previously after lower doses and suggest linear kinetics for doses between 12 μg and 120 μg of formoterol fumarate. The expected side effects on heart rate, QTc interval, and plasma potassium were small and had no clinical consequences in spite of the very high dose of 120 μg (5 to 10 times the recommended therapeutic dose of Foradil). It should be noted that the impact of high doses may be greater in patients. Nevertheless these findings provide reassurance on the safety margin of formoterol after accidental and intentional overdosing.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.121223
Title:Effects of L-leucine on the properties of spray-dried swellable microparticles with wrinkled surfaces for inhalation therapy of pulmonary fibrosis
Authors:X. WangW. WanJ. LuG. QuanX. PanP. Liu
Absract:Swellable microparticles (SMs) provide a potential strategy for achieving sustained inhalation therapy. However, spray dried SMs are highly hygroscopic, exhibiting poor flowability and dispersibility properties. This study aimed at determining whether L-leucine (LL) can improve aerosolization performance of SMs with wrinkled surface and its potential mechanisms. Cryptotanshinone was co-spray dried with chitosan and LL (0–40%, mass fraction in carrier materials), after which the production yield, particle size, density, encapsulation efficiency, morphology, cohesion, crystallinity, surface LL distribution, hygroscopicity, water content and in vitro aerosolization performance of the developed formulations were characterized. In addition, we determined whether LL, as a hydrophobic amino acid, would impair swellability and macrophage phagocytosis of SMs. The possible impact of LL on in vitro drug release, cytotoxicity and anti-fibrosis effects on MRC-5 cells was also investigated. As the LL content increased, LL began to crystallize. At 7.5% LL, water content and hygroscopicity of the SMs were at their lowest. Moreover, at 7.5% LL, surface enrichment increased rapidly after which it achieved a comparatively complete coverage at 20–40% LL. However, LL ≥ 20% caused the formation of over-wrinkled, even dimpled or hollow particles, which significantly deteriorated powder properties. Optimum aerosolization performance was obtained at 10% LL, irrespective of its crystallization behavior, accompanied by the lowest cohesion, optimal flowability and production yield, and without impaired swellability, macrophage uptake and anti-fibrosis efficacy. The optimal formulation did not exhibit optimum surface LL coverage, implying that improvement of aerosolization performance of wrinkled SMs by LL not simply depended on its surface enrichment, but its significant influence on morphology and on related powder properties as well.

doi:10.3109/10837450.2013.819013
Title:Pulmonary delivery of nanosized alendronate for decorporation of inhaled heavy metals: Formulation development, characterization and gamma scintigraphic evaluation
Authors:S. SultanaA. BhatnagarH. RawatD.K. NishadS. TalegaonkarF.J. AhmadG. Mittal
Absract:Context: Medical management of heavy metal toxicity including radioactive ones is the cause of concern because of their increased use in energy production, healthcare and mining. As inhalation is one of the primary routes for internalization, a formulation is needed to trap metal(s) at the portal of entry itself. Objective: Objective was to formulate and characterize a nanonized dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation of alendronate sodium as potential inhalable antidote for chelating metal toxicants. Methods: In vitro binding studies of alendronate with respect to seven non-radioactive heavy metals were carried out using UV-spectroscopy and HPLC. Nanonizing of alendronate particles was achieved by antisolvent precipitation using Pluronic-F68 as stabilizer. Characterization was done with the help of SEM, TEM FT-IR, XRD, DSC, NMR spectroscopy and PSD studies. In vitro and in vivo pulmonary deposition studies were carried out using gamma scintigraphy, followed by a limited pharmacokinetic study in humans. Results: In vitro binding studies confirmed the chelating action of alendronate. Anderson cascade impaction showed that nano-alendronate exhibited significantly higher respirable fraction (58.25 ± 1.32%) compared to the micronized form (28.7 ± 0.59%). Scintigraphy results showed significant increase in the alveolar deposition of drug post-nanonizing. Conclusion: Results strongly indicate the role of nano-alendronate DPI as potential inhalable antidote for neutralizing heavy metal toxicity, including radio-metal contamination. © 2014 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1208/aapsj0902021
Title:Characterization of a cyclosporine solid dispersion for inhalation
Authors:G.S. ZijlstraM. RijkeboerD.J. van DroogeM. SutterW. JiskootM. van de WeertW.L.J. HinrichsH.W. Frijlink
Absract:For lung transplant patients, a respirable, inulin-based solid dispersion containing cyclosporine A (CsA) has been developed. The solid dispersions were prepared by spray freeze-drying. The solid dispersion was characterized by water vapor uptake, specific surface area analysis, and particle size analysis. Furthermore, the mode of inclusion of CsA in the dispersion was investigated with Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. Finally, the dissolution behavior was determined and the aerosol that was formed by the powder was characterized. The powder had large specifi c surface areas (∼ 160 m@sup_begin2@sup_end). The water vapor uptake was dependant linearly on the drug load. The type of solid dispersion was a combination of a solid solution and solid suspension. At a 10% drug load, 55% of the CsA in the powder was in the form of a solid solution and 45% as solid suspension. At 50% drug load, the powder contained 90% of CsA as solid suspension. The powder showed excellent dispersion characteristics as shown by the high emitted fraction (95%), respirable fraction (75%), and fine-particle fraction (50%). The solid dispersions consisted of relatively large (x@sub_begin50@sub_end ≈ 7 μm), but low-density particles (ρ ≈ 0.2 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end). The solid dispersions dissolved faster than the physical mixture, and inulin dissolved faster than CsA. The spray freeze-drying with inulin increased the specifi c surface area and wettability of CsA. In conclusion, the developed powder seems suitable for inhalation in the local treatment of lung transplant patients.

doi:10.1002/ddr.10220
Title:Imaging studies of biodistribution and kinetics in drug development
Authors:M.S. BerridgeD.L. HealdZ. Lee
Absract:Although the intravenous route of administration is rarely used for drugs, it is by far the most common route for PET and SPECT radiotracers. This article discusses the use of planar and tomographic nuclear medicine technologies to image and quantify the distribution of drugs after local administration. In principle, this would include topical dermatologic, otic, ophthalmic, rectal, and vaginal administration, as well as the intramuscular, oral, and inhalation routes, although precedents do not yet exist for all of these. The studies reviewed focus mainly on oral ingestion and oral and nasal inhalation. The use of nondrug tracers for formulations is discussed, principally with planar imaging or SPECT using radionuclides such as @sup_begin99m@sup_endTC, as well as PET imaging where the active ingredient of a formulation can be labeled with @sup_begin11@sup_endC or sometimes @sup_begin18@sup_endF. An example of the latter type is a study of the deposition and kinetics in the lungs and airways of triamcinolone acetonide, an antiinflammatory steroid used for topical treatment of allergic rhinitis and asthma, dispensed from an inhaler. PET has high potential for evaluation of different formulations and delivery devices in the development of topically applied drugs. Drug Dev. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.02.003
Title:Formulation, stability and pharmacokinetics of sugar-based salmon calcitonin-loaded nanoporous/nanoparticulate microparticles (NPMPs) for inhalation
Authors:M.I. AmaroF. TewesO. GobboL. TajberO.I. CorriganC. EhrhardtA.M. Healy
Absract:A challenge exists to produce dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations with appropriate formulation stability, biological activity and suitable physicochemical and aerosolisation characteristics that provide a viable alternative to parenteral formulations. The present study aimed to produce sugar-based nanoporous/nanoparticulate microparticles (NPMPs) loaded with a therapeutic peptide - salmon calcitonin (sCT). The physicochemical properties of the powders and their suitability for pulmonary delivery of sCT were determined. Production of powders composed of sCT loaded into raffinose or trehalose with or without hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin was carried out using a laboratory scale spray dryer. Spray dried microparticles were spherical, porous and of small geometric size (≤2 μm). Aerodynamic assessment showed that the fine particle fraction (FPF) less than 5 μm ranged from 45 to 86%, depending on the formulation. The mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) varied between 1.9 and 4.7 μm. Compared to unprocessed sCT, sCT:raffinose composite systems presented a bioactivity of approximately 100% and sCT:trehalose composite systems between 70-90% after spray drying. Storage stability studies demonstrated composite systems with raffinose to be more stable than those containing trehalose. These sugar-based salmon calcitonin-loaded NPMPs retain reasonable sCT bioactivity and have micromeritic and physicochemical properties which indicate their suitability for pulmonary delivery. Formulations presented a similar pharmacokinetic profile to sCT solution. Hence the advantage of a dry powder formulation is its non-invasive delivery route and ease of administration of the sCT.

doi:10.1021/mp4006563
Title:Inhalable particles containing rapamycin for induction of autophagy in macrophages infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis
Authors:A. GuptaG. PantK. MitraJ. MadanM.K. ChourasiaA. Misra
Absract:We investigated whether particles suitable for delivery to alveolar macrophages may provide a means of targeting rapamycin, an inducer of autophagy, to alveolar macrophages as a host-directed antituberculosis agent. Inhalable particles were prepared by spray-drying and characterized using laser scattering and electron microscopy. Their aerodynamic diameter was calculated from bulk and tapped densities. In vitro drug release was studied in PBS containing 1% SDS. In vitro uptake of particles by THP-1 derived macrophages was studied by flow cytometry. Cytotoxicity of the particles toward macrophages and their efficacy against intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis were studied using a methyltetrazolium assay and counting bacterial colonies obtained when cell lysates were plated on agar. The encapsulation efficiency was 88.8 ± 1.13% and drug content 22 ± 4% w/w. The particles had a median diameter of 2.88 ± 0.8 μm and appeared as collapsed spheres. Their calculated aerodynamic diameter was about 1 μm. In vitro drug release from the particles was first-order and extended beyond 10 days. Flow cytometry indicated that the particles were taken up by macrophages within 3 h. Macrophages exposed to the particles or rapamycin in solution at a concentration of 100 μg/mL over a 24 h period maintained 79.37 ± 0.72% and 58.33 ± 1.39% viability, respectively. Efficacy studies concluded that particles were more effective in clearing intracellular mycobacteria than rapamycin in solution. It was concluded that the preparation was suitable for formulating as a dry powder inhalation to test efficacy of inhaled, macrophage-targeted rapamycin against TB. © 2014 American Chemical Society.

doi:10.1111/resp.13267
Title:Liposomal formulation of quercetin and resolvind1 for treatment of steroid resistant airway inflammation
Authors:V. KomallaK. McAlindenD. RamacciniS. ScaliaP. SharmaB. OliverM. Haghi
Absract:Introduction/Aim: Steroids are the mainstay treatment targeting airway inflammation. However, in some patients increased oxidative stress could result in resistance to steroid treatment. Therefore, combining antiinflammatory, resolvin D1 (RvD1), and antioxidant quercetin (Q) could be a promising therapeutic strategy. Here, we aim to prepare liposomal formulation of Q and RvD1 and investigate its effectiveness in human airway epithelial cells (BEAS-2B). Methods: Blank, Q and QRvD1 liposomes were prepared and characterised. Cell uptake studies were performed using confocal microscope and antioxidant activity of the liposomes was determined. Results: The results demonstrated a monomodal size distribution of 163.26 ± 1.69 nm, 158.16 ± 1.89 nm, 167.3 ± 0.8 nm for blank, Q and QRvD1 liposomes respectively.The concentration of Q encapsulated was found to be 4.99 ± 2.6 μg/ml and 2.5 ± 1.97 μg/ml in Q and QRvD1 liposomes respectively and concentration of RvD1 in QRvD1 liposomes was found to be 9.57 ± 0.01 pg/ml. There was a time-dependent uptake of liposomes (Q and QRvD1) observed over 6 hours following treatment with liposomes. The antioxidant activity of Q was found to be significantly higher (P<0.05) when formulated as liposomes (48.177 ± 6.99% for Q and 48.33 ± 5.626% for QRvD1) compared to free Q (30.79 ± 2.51%). Figure 1. Uptake of Q liposomes into the Beas-2B cells 6 hours following treatment Conclusion: In conclusion, liposomal formulations demonstrate acceptable characteristics for inhalation with significantly increased antioxidant properties when compared with the free Q. These liposomal formulations could potentially improve the therapeutic outcomes in steroid resistant patients. Further studies will investigate the anti-inflammatory activity of these liposomes in in vitro and in vivo.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2017.1318902
Title:Dry powders for the inhalation of ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin combined with a mucolytic agent for cystic fibrosis patients
Authors:Y. Akdag CayliS. SahinF. ButtiniA.G. BalducciS. MontanariI. VuralL. Oner
Absract:Objective: This study aimed to design and characterize an inhalable dry powder of ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin combined with the mucolytics acetylcysteine and dornase alfa for the management of pulmonary infections in patients with cystic fibrosis. Methods: Ball milling, homogenization in isopropyl alcohol and spray drying processes were used to prepare dry powders for inhalation. Physico-chemical characteristics of the dry powders were assessed via thermogravimetric analysis, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), X-ray diffractometry and scanning electron microscopy. The particle size distribution, dissolution rate and permeability across Calu-3 cell monolayers were analyzed. The aerodynamic parameters of dry powders were determined using the Andersen cascade impactor (ACI). Results: After the micronization process, the particle sizes of the raw materials significantly decreased. X-ray and DSC results indicated that although ciprofloxacin showed no changes in its crystal structure, the structure of levofloxacin became amorphous after the micronization process. FT-IR spectra exhibited the characteristic peaks for ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin in all formulations. The dissolution rates of micro-homogenized and spray-dried ciprofloxacin were higher than that of untreated ciprofloxacin. ACI results showed that all formulations had a mass median aerodynamic diameter less than 5 μm; however, levofloxacin microparticles showed higher respirability than ciprofloxacin powders did. The permeability of levofloxacin was higher than those of the ciprofloxacin formulations. Conclusion: Together, our study showed that these methods could suitably characterize antibiotic and mucolytic-containing dry powder inhalers.

doi:10.3390/ijms12074414
Title:Isoniazid proliposome powders for inhalation-preparation, characterization and cell culture studies
Authors:W. RojanaratN. ChangsanE. TawithongS. PinsuwanH.-K. ChanT. Srichana
Absract:The aims of this study were to develop proliposome powders containing isoniazid (INH) in a dry powder aerosol form. INH-proliposome powders were prepared by a spray drying method. Proliposome physicochemical properties were determined using cascade impactor, X-ray diffraction and differential scanning calorimetry. The toxicity of proliposomes to respiratory-associated cell lines and its potential to provoke immunological responses from alveolar macrophages (AM) were determined. Free INH and INH-proliposome bioactivities were tested in vitro and in AM infected with Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis). Aerosolization properties of INH-proliposome powders at 60 L/min, the powders showed mass median aerodynamic diameters of 2.99-4.92 μm, with fine particle fractions (aerosolized particles less than 4.4 μm) of 15-35%. Encapsulation of INH was 18-30%. Proliposome formulations containing INH to mannitol ratios of 4:6 and 6:4 exhibited the greatest overlapping peak between the drug and mannitol. INH-proliposomes were evidently nontoxic to respiratory-associated cells, and did not activate AM to produce inflammatory mediators-including interleukin-1α (IL-1α), tumor necrosis factor-β (TNF-β), and nitric oxide-at a toxic level. The efficacy of INH-proliposome against AM infected with M. bovis was significantly higher than that of free INH (p < 0.05). INH-proliposomes are potential candidates for an alternative tuberculosis treatment.

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9141-z
Title:Iloprost-containing liposomes for aerosol application in pulmonary arterial hypertension: Formulation aspects and stability
Authors:E. KleemannT. SchmehlT. GesslerU. BakowskyT. KisselW. Seeger
Absract:Purpose. Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a severe and progressive disease. The prostacyclin analogue iloprost is effective against PAH, but requires six to nine inhalations per day. The feasibility of liposomes to provide a sustained release formulation to reduce inhalation frequency is evaluated from a technological point of view. Methods. Liposomal formulations consisting of di-palmitoyl-phosphatidyl-choline (DPPC), cholesterol (CH) and polyethyleneglycol-di-palmitoyl-phosphatidyl-ethanolamine (DPPE-PEG) were prepared. Their physico-chemical properties were investigated using dynamic light scattering, atomic force microscopy and differential scanning calorimetry. Stability of liposomes during aerosolization using three different nebulizers (air-jet, ultrasonic and vibrating mesh) was investigated with respect to drug loading and liposome size, pre- and post-nebulization. Results. The phospholipid composition affected the diameters of liposomes only slightly in the range of 200-400 nm. The highest iloprost loading (12 μg/ml) and sufficient liposome stability (70% drug encapsulation post-nebulization) was observed for the DPPC/CH (70:30 molar ratio) liposomes. The formulation's stability was confirmed by the relatively high phase transition temperature (53°C) and unchanged particle sizes. The incorporation of DPPE-PEG in the liposomes (DPPC/CH/DPPE-PEG, 50:45:5 molar ratio) resulted in decreased stability (20-50% drug encapsulation post-nebulization) and a phase transition temperature of 35°C. The vibrating mesh nebulizer offered a number of significant advantages over the other nebulizers, including the production of small aerosol droplets, high output, and the lowest deleterious physical influence upon all investigated liposomes. Conclusion. Iloprost-loaded liposomes containing DPPC and CH components yield formulations which are well suited to aerosolization by the vibrating mesh nebulizer. The investigation of sustained release effects for the treatment of PAH in ex vivo and in vivo models is under way. © 2006 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2006.01.006
Title:Single dose and multiple dose studies of itraconazole nanoparticles
Authors:J.M. VaughnJ.T. McConvilleD. BurgessJ.I. PetersK.P. JohnstonR.L. TalbertR.O. Williams III
Absract:The objective of this study was to determine and compare the lung and serum concentrations in mice following oral and pulmonary dosing of amorphous nanoparticulate itraconazole (ITZ) compositions as well as the Sporanox@sup_begin®@sup_end oral solution (itraconazole/Janssen). Second, the steady state partitioning of ITZ in lung tissue and circulatory compartments following repeated oral and pulmonary dosing was determined. The pulmonary formulation (ITZ-pulmonary) consisted of ITZ, polysorbate 80, and poloxamer 407 in a 1:0.75:0.75 ratio and the oral formulation (ITZ-oral) consisted of ITZ, PEG 8000, poloxamer 188, and sorbitan monooleate 80 in a 1:1:2:1 ratio. Mice were dosed every 12 h by nebulization with ITZ-pulmonary, or by oral gavage with ITZ-oral or Sporanox oral solution (n = 12 per study arm). ITZ-pulmonary achieved significantly greater (>10-fold) lung tissue concentrations compared to the Sporanox oral solution and ITZ-oral. There were no statistical differences between the two oral formulations. ITZ-pulmonary achieved significantly greater lung levels per unit serum concentration compared to the orally dosed ITZ compositions. High and sustained lung tissue concentrations were achieved via inhalation of an amorphous nanoparticulate ITZ-pulmonary composition while maintaining serum levels which are above the minimum lethal concentration (MLC) of Aspergillus fumigatus. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s13346-021-01005-5
Title:A triple combination 'nano' dry powder inhaler for tuberculosis: in vitro and in vivo pulmonary characterization
Authors:M.M. ChogaleS.B. DhobleV.B. Patravale
Absract:Inhalation route of drug delivery is the most favorable for pulmonary infections wherein direct drug delivery is desired to the lungs. Tuberculosis is one such infection suffering from poor therapeutic efficacy because of low patient compliance due to high drug dosing and lengthy treatment protocols. The current research work was undertaken to develop a dry powder inhaler (DPI) for administration of three first-line antitubercular antibiotics directly to the lungs to improve the treatment rates. Nanoformulations of isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and rifampicin were prepared, spray-dried to obtain a dry powder system, and blended with inhalation grade lactose to develop the DPI. The DPI was evaluated for its flow properties, pulmonary deposition, dissolution profile, and stability. The DPI possessed excellent flow properties with a fine particle fraction of 45% and a mass median aerodynamic diameter of approximately 5 µm indicating satisfactory lung deposition. In vitro drug release exhibited a sustained release of the formulations. In vivo studies showed a prolonged deposition in the lung at elevated concentrations compared to oral therapy. Stability studies proved that the formulation remained stable at accelerated and long-term stability conditions. The DPI could complement the existing oral therapy in enhancing the therapeutic efficacy in patients. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]

doi:10.4187/respcare.01246
Title:Pediatric aerosol therapy: New devices and new drugs
Authors:B.K. Rubin
Absract:The lung and conducting airways are ideal portals for drug delivery. The airways are easily accessible by oral or nasal inhalation; the airway and alveolar surface is large, allowing for drug dispersion; and many drugs do not cross the airway-blood barrier, permitting the use of higher topical drug doses for airway disease than would be practical with systemic administration. On the other hand, alveolar deposition of drugs allows rapid absorption into the pulmonary circulation and back to the left heart and systemic distribution, bypassing the intestinal tract and liver inactivation. Recently, there has been a feast of new aerosol devices and drug formulations that promise the effective delivery of an amazing array of medications far beyond pressurized metered-dose inhalers and nebulizers and asthma medicines. © 2011 Daedalus Enterprises.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13050717
Title:A safety and tolerability study of thin film freeze-dried tacrolimus for local pulmonary drug delivery in human subjects
Authors:S. SahakijpijarnM. BegS.M. LevineJ.I. PetersR.O. Williams
Absract:Due to the low and erratic bioavailability of oral tacrolimus (TAC), the long-term survival rate following lung transplantation remained low compared to other solid organs. TAC was reformulated and developed as inhaled formulations by thin film freezing (TFF). Previous studies reported that inhaled TAC combined with 50% w/w lactose (LAC) was safe and effective for the treatment of lung transplant rejection in rodent models. In this study, we aimed to investigate the safety and tolerability of TFF TAC-LAC in human subjects. The formulation can be delivered to the lung as colloidal dispersions after reconstitution and as a dry powder. Healthy subjects inhaled TAC-LAC colloidal dispersions at 3 mg TAC/dose via a vibrating mesh nebulizer in the first stage of this study and TAC-LAC dry powder at 3 mg TAC/dose via a single dose dry powder inhaler in the second stage. Our results demonstrated that oral inhalation of TAC-LAC colloidal dispersions and dry powder exhibited low systemic absorption. Additionally, they were well-tolerated with no changes in CBC, liver, kidney, and lung functions. Only mild adverse side effects (e.g., cough, throat irritation, distaste) were observed. In summary, pulmonary delivery of TFF TAC-LAC would be a safe and promising therapy for lung transplant recipients.

doi:10.2147/CE.S64980
Title:Colistimethate sodium for the treatment of chronic pulmonary infection in cystic fibrosis: An evidence-based review of its place in therapy
Authors:C. Koerner-RettbergM. Ballmann
Absract:Chronic bacterial respiratory-tract infections are a major driving force in the pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease and promote chronic lung-function decline, destruction, and progression to respiratory failure at a premature age. Gram-negative bacteria colonizing the airways in CF are a major problem in CF therapy due to their tendency to develop a high degree of resistance to antibiotic agents over time. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the dominating bacterial strain infecting the CF lung from early childhood on, and multiresistant strains frequently develop after years of therapy. Colistin has been used for treating pulmonary bacterial infections in CF for decades due to its very good Gram-negative activity. However, drawbacks include concerns regarding toxicity when being applied systemically, and the lack of approval for application by inhalation in the USA for many years. Other antibiotic substances for systemic use are available with good to excellent Gram-negative and anti-Pseudomonas activity, while there are only three substances approved for inhalation use in the treatment of chronic pulmonary infection with proven benefit in CF. The emergence of multiresistant strains leaving nearly no antibiotic substance as a treatment option, the limited number of antibiotics with high activity against P. aeruginosa, the concerns about increasing the risk of antibiotic resistance by continuous antibiotic therapy, the development of new drug formulations and drug-delivery devices, and, finally, the differing treatment strategies used in CF centers call for defining the place of this "old" drug, colistimethate, in today's CF therapy. This article reviews the available evidence to reflect on the place of colistimethate sodium in the therapy of chronic pulmonary infection in CF.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2006.11.027
Title:Direct lung delivery of a dry powder formulation of DTPA with improved aerosolization properties: Effect on lung and systemic decorporation of plutonium
Authors:C. GervelasA.-L. SerandourS. GeigerG. GrillonP. FritschC. TaulelleB. Le GallH. BenechJ.-R. DeverreE. FattalN. Tsapis
Absract:DTPA, an actinide chelating agent, has demonstrated its ability to complex plutonium (Pu) and to facilitate its urinary excretion after internal contamination. This process, known as decorporation is crucial to diminish the burden of Pu in the body. The ability to deliver a chelating agent directly to the alveolar region may increase its local concentration as compared to systemic delivery and therefore increase the extent of decorporation. Second, inhalation offers the potential for needle-free, systemic delivery of small molecules and would be convenient in case of nuclear accident as a first pass emergency treatment. To benefit from the improvement of inhalation technology, we have formulated DTPA into porous particles by spray-drying with dl-Leucine, DPPC and ammonium bicarbonate. The optimized particles possess a volume mean geometric diameter around 4.5 μm and crumpled paper morphology. The in vitro aerodynamic evaluation shows that about 56% of the powder should deposits in the lungs, with about 27% in the alveolar region, an improvement as compared with the micronized powder available with the Spinhaler®. After pulmonary administration to rats contaminated with PuO@sub_begin2@sub_end, a 3-fold increase of the Pu urinary excretion was observed, but the dissolution of PuO@sub_begin2@sub_end in the lungs was not enhanced. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/ppul.21376
Title:Higher tobramycin concentration and vibrating mesh technology can shorten antibiotic treatment time in cystic fibrosis
Authors:A.L. CoatesO. DenkK. LeungN. RibeiroJ. ChanM. GreenS. MartinM. CharronM. EdwardesM. Keller
Absract:Poor adherence to recommended therapy in cystic fibrosis (CF) is often because of the time demands of therapy. Tobramycin (TOBI®, 300mg at 60 mg/ml) inhaled from the PARI LC PLUS® nebulizer requires about 20 min. This study determined if equivalent levels of pulmonary deposition could be achieved in shorter time using 1.5 ml of 100 mg/ml tobramycin solution delivered by an investigational eFlow® nebulizer. Sixteen males with stable CF, 8 children and 8 adults, and an FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end>45%predicted inhaled both preparations on two occasions with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA added to the tobramycin. Blood samples were taken for quantification of tobramycin in the serum. The PARI LC PLUS® delivered 45.4 (39.3-51.6), mean and 95% CI, mg to the lungs in 17.0±2.5 min (mean±SD) with serum levels of 1,089±388 μg/L. The investigational eFlow® delivered 46.3(40.3-51.7) mg in 4.0±1.0 min with blood levels of 909±458 μg/L. Only the time of delivery was significantly different with P < 0.0001 (paired t-test). Tolerability of the treatment was comparable for both inhalation regimes, but the shorter treatment was preferred by all patients. These results demonstrate the possibility of delivering equivalent levels of tobramycin much faster into the lungs of CF patients when using eFlow®, a very efficient electronic nebulizer. © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2004.06.018
Title:A review of the development of Respimat® Soft Mist™ Inhaler
Authors:R. DalbyM. SpallekT. Voshaar
Absract:Respimat® Soft Mist™ Inhaler (SMI) is a new generation inhaler from Boehringer Ingelheim developed for use with respiratory drugs. The device functions by forcing a metered dose of drug solution through a unique and precisely engineered nozzle (the uniblock), producing two fine jets of liquid that converge at a pre-set angle. The collision of these two jets generates the soft mist. The soft mist contains a high fine particle fraction of approximately 65 to 80%. This is higher than aerosol clouds from conventional portable inhaler devices, such as pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs). In addition, the relatively long generation time of the aerosol cloud (approximately 1.5 s) facilitates co-ordination of inhalation and actuation - a major problem with pMDIs. These features, together with the slow velocity of the soft mist, result in larger amounts of the drug reaching the lungs and less being deposited in the oropharynx compared with either pMDIs or DPIs. Generation of the soft mist from Respimat® SMI is purely mechanical, so propellants are not necessary. The innovative design of Respimat® SMI, using water-based drug formulations, ensures patients receive consistent and reliable doses of the drug with each actuation. The device was initially tested in scintigraphic lung deposition studies and produced encouraging results when compared with the chlorofluorocarbon-based pMDI (CFC-MDI). Subsequent clinical studies have confirmed that Respimat® SMI is effective and safe in delivering bronchodilators to patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. © 2004 Published by Elsevier B.V.

pui:27277841
Title:Therapeutic equivalence of a novel HFA134a-containing metered-dose inhaler and the conventional CFC inhaler (Berodual®) for the delivery of a fixed combination of fenoterol/ipratropium bromide: A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study in patients with asthma
Authors:F.P.V. MaesenL.P.M. GreefhorstJ.J. SmeetsF.D.M. WaldP.J.G. Cornelissen
Absract:The efficacy and safety of a novel fenoterol/ipratropium bromide metered-dose inhaler (MDI) formulated with a non-chlorinated propellant, HFA134a, has been compared with placebo and the conventional chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-containing fenoterol/ipratropium bromide inhaler (Berodual®) in asthmatic patients. Fifty-two patients were enrolled in two centres. The fenoterol/ipratropium bromide treatment produced significantly (p < 0.0001) greater bronchodilatation than placebo. There were no significant differences between the mean peak and average forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) for patients receiving 2 puffs of the fenoterol/ipratropium bromide HFA134a inhaler and the conventional CFC inhaler. In addition, time to onset and duration of efficacy were comparable for these two treatments. None of the patients showed a fall of ≤ 15% in baseline FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end or needed rescue medication within 30 min after inhalation of the test drug. No paradoxical bronchoconstriction was observed as measured by sGaw. The two inhaler formulations were well tolerated. A taste-related complaint, lasting for a few minutes after inhalation, was reported by a higher proportion of patients who inhaled the HFA134a formulation, mainly by patients selected in one of the two centres. In conclusion, a dose of 100 μg fenoterol/40 μg ipratropium bromide inhaled from a MDI containing HFA134a propellant is safe and provides effective bronchodilatation of equivalent degree, onset and duration of action to the same dose from the conventional CFC formulation.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119490
Title:Using thin film freezing to minimize excipients in inhalable tacrolimus dry powder formulations
Authors:S. SahakijpijarnC. MoonX. MaY. SuJ.J. KolengA. DolocanR.O. Williams
Absract:We investigated the feasibility of preparing high-potency tacrolimus dry powder for inhalation using thin film freezing (TFF). We found that using ultra-rapid freezing can increase drug loading up to 95% while maintaining good aerosol performance. Drug loading affected the specific surface area and moisture sorption of TFF formulations, but it did not affect the chemical stability, physical stability, and dissolution of tacrolimus. Tacrolimus remained amorphous after storage at 40 °C/75% RH, and 25 °C/60% RH for up to 6 months. Lactose functioned as a bulking agent, and it had little to no effect as a stabilizer for amorphous tacrolimus due to a lack of interaction between the drug and excipient. Additionally, the aerosol performance of TFF tacrolimus/lactose (95/5) did not significantly change after six months of storage at 25 °C/60% RH. For processing parameters, the solids content and the processing temperature did not affect the aerosol performance of tacrolimus. Furthermore, both low- and high-resistance RS01 showed optimal and consistent aerosol performance over the 1–4 kPa pressure drop range. In conclusion, TFF is a suitable technology for producing inhalable powder that contain high drug loading and have less flow rate dependence.

doi:10.1080/10837450.2017.1342656
Title:Formulation of novel dry powder inhalation for fluticasone propionate and salmeterol xinafoate with capsule-based device
Authors:K.S. KimJ.H. KimS.G. JinD.W. KimJ.O. KimC.S. YongY.S. YounK.T. OhJ.S. WooH.-G. Choi
Absract:The aim of this study was to develop a novel fluticasone propionate (FP) and salmeterol xinafoate (SX)-loaded dry powder inhaler (DPI) system, which was composed of powder formulation and performance. The air flow resistances were determined with various types of DPI device, showing that the modified RS01 device gave the specific resistance similar to the commercial DPI device. The particle properties of FP, SX, and inhalation grade lactose particles, such as particle size, size distribution, and fine content, were assessed. Subsequently, the aerodynamic behaviors of the DPI powder formulations were evaluated by the in vitro deposition of drugs in the DPI products using Andersen cascade impactor. Amongst the DPI powder formulations tested, the formulation composed of FP, SX, Respitose@sup_begin®@sup_end SV003, Respitose@sup_begin®@sup_end SV010, and Respitose@sup_begin®@sup_end ML006 at the weight ratio of 0.5/0.145/19/19/2 gave depositions, emitted dose, fine particle dose, fine particle fraction, and mass median aerodynamic diameter of drugs similar to the commercial product, suggesting that they had similar aerodynamic behaviors. Furthermore, it gave excellent content uniformity. Thus, this DPI using the modified RS01 device would be recommended as a candidate for FP and SX-loaded pharmaceutical DPI products.

doi:10.1002/jps.21648
Title:Evaluation of impaction force of nasal sprays and metered-dose inhalers using the texture analyser
Authors:C. GuoW. YeJ. KauffmanW.H. Doub
Absract:The impaction force from an inhalation product is an important characteristics by which to characterize the spray plume. It is one of the plume characteristics that can be perceived by a patient, and is expected to be good measures of local delivery equivalence for inhalation drugs. A Stable Micro Systems TA-XT.plus Texture Analyser equipped with 750 g load cell was used to measure the impaction force of several nasal sprays and metered-dose inhalers (MDIs). A survey of several commercial nasal spray and MDI products shows that impaction forces of these products varies from 1.5 to 6.5 g force and are significantly different from each other. A 3-level, 4-factor Box-Behnken design was applied to the study of impaction force of nasal sprays using placebo solutions. The influences of four factors: actuation stroke length, actuation velocity, concentration of gelling agent, and concentration of surfactant, were investigated. Of those factors examined here, actuation velocity exerts the greatest effect on impaction force. Impaction force is a discriminative parameter for in vitro testing of nasal spray and MDI products. Since impaction force is more directly related to patient sensation and aerosol deposition in the nasal mucus than other, more traditional parameters, it may provide a better way to evaluate in vitro equivalence in support of abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) for orally inhaled and nasal drug products. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1021/mp500003q
Title:Design and development of novel mitochondrial targeted nanocarriers, dqasomes for curcumin inhalation
Authors:S. ZupančičP. KocbekM.G. ZariwalaD. RenshawM.O. GulZ. ElsaidK.M.G. TaylorS. Somavarapu
Absract:Curcumin has potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties but poor absorption following oral administration owing to its low aqueous solubility. Development of novel formulations to improve its in vivo efficacy is therefore challenging. In this study, formulation of curcumin-loaded DQAsomes (vesicles formed from the amphiphile, dequalinium) for pulmonary delivery is presented for the first time. The vesicles demonstrated mean hydrodynamic diameters between 170 and 200 nm, with a potential of approximately +50 mV, high drug loading (up to 61%) and encapsulation efficiency (90%), resulting in enhanced curcumin aqueous solubility. Curcumin encapsulation in DQAsomes in the amorphous state was confirmed by X-ray diffraction and differential scanning calorimetry analysis. The existence of hydrogen bonds and cation-p interaction between curcumin and vesicle building blocks, namely dequalinium molecules, were shown in lyophilized DQAsomes using FT-IR analysis. Encapsulation of curcumin in DQAsomes enhanced the antioxidant activity of curcumin compared to free curcumin. DQAsome dispersion was successfully nebulized with the majority of the delivered dose deposited in the second stage of the twin-stage impinger. The vesicles showed potential for mitochondrial targeting. Curcumin-loaded DQAsomes thus represent a promising inhalation formulation with improved stability characteristics and mitochondrial targeting ability, indicating a novel approach for efficient curcumin delivery for effective treatment of acute lung injury and the rationale for future in vivo studies. © 2014 American Chemical Society.

doi:10.1055/a-0649-0814
Title:Development of a Carrier Free Dry Powder Inhalation Formulation of Ketotifen for Pulmonary Drug Delivery
Authors:F. AzariS. GhanbarzadehR. SafdariS. YaqoubiK. AdibkiaH. Hamishehkar
Absract:Background Pulmonary drug delivery route is gaining much attention because it enables to target the active ingredients directly to lung both for local and systemic treatments, which maximize the therapeutic effect and minimize unwanted systemic toxicity. Dry powder inhaler (DPI) systems for asthma therapy have shown several merits to the other pulmonary delivery systems such as nebulizers and metered dose inhalers. Purpose The present study aims to develop and optimize a DPI formulation for Ketotifen fumarate through spray drying technique. Methods Particles size and morphology, crystallinity, and drug-excipient interaction of fabricated DPI formulations were evaluated by scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy methods, respectively. The aerosolization indexes and aerodynamic properties of dry powders were determined by next generation impactor. The powder flowability was assessed by measuring the Hausner ratio and compressibility index. Results Among solvent systems, ethanol-water mixture produced the most desirable powder property for inhalation after spray drying. Although co-spray dried formulations with ammonium bicarbonate resulted in the porous structure, it was not beneficial for DPI formulations due to the interaction with Ketotifen. DSC and XRD experiments proved the amorphous structure of prepared powders, which were stable for 12 months. Conclusion The results of this study demonstrate the potential of Ketotifen DPI formulation and pave a way to use it easily in an industrial scale.

doi:10.35333/jrp.2020.165
Title:Nano-embedded microparticles based dry powder inhaler for lung cancer treatment
Authors:N. ChishtiM.H. Dehghan
Absract:Lower efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents through the systemic route for treatment of lung cancer is attributed to its lower concentration in the lungs. Conversely, higher concentrations of drug in the lungs can be achieved by pulmonary administration via the inhalation route. For effective deposition of the formulation at the target region (small airways and alveoli) of the lung, the aerodynamic diameter has to be controlled (1-5 µm) and its retention is of key importance. The present study attempted to design a dry powder inhalation formulation with combined benefits of micron-and nano-sized particles [nano-embedded microparticles (NEMs)], which upon redispersion, results in nanoparticles (NPs) exhibiting good retention in the lungs. The present attempt is the foremost one to utilize NEMs administered by pulmonary route for the treatment of lung cancer. Docetaxel (DTX) NPs was formulated using sonication solvent evaporation technique and characterized. Thereafter, DTX-NPs were embedded into microparticles using the spray drying technique. The NEMs exhibited the desired flow properties with Carr’s index 10.18±2.79 and Hausner ratio 1.11±0.034. The mass median aerodynamic diameter was 3.74±0.11 µm and the fine particle fraction 42.96±1.66%. Redispersed NP fraction was 47.78±4.65% with NPs retaining the desired properties. NPs demonstrated a sustained release of upto 144 h. The particle size and PDI of the redispersed NPs were unaffected. NEMs displayed stability upon charging under accelerated conditions for upto 3 months. Comparison of the cytotoxicity of DTX and DTX-NEMs revealed that the DTX-NEMs had more cytoxicity owing to the increased uptake of liberated NPs by cells. The prepared formulation could successfully entrap NPs (with mucus barrier-evading properties) in lactose microparticles, which can be deposited in the lungs and eventually, disintegrate to give back NPs under simulated lung conditions. The results suggest that the developed NEMs can be used in inhaled chemotherapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.12.037
Title:Platinum pharmacokinetics in mice following inhalation of cisplatin dry powders with different release and lung retention properties
Authors:V. LevetR. MerlosR. RosièreK. AmighiN. Wauthoz
Absract:Pharmacokinetics of cisplatin administered by the pulmonary route were established in mice using dry powders inhaler (DPI) formulations showing immediate (F1) and controlled release (CR, solid lipid microparticles) in vitro, without (F2) or with PEGylated excipients (F3, F4). Formulation administration was realized using dry powder blends (correspondingly named thereafter F1@sub_beginB@sub_end to F4@sub_beginB@sub_end) able to reproducibly deliver particles in vivo using a DP-4M Dry Powder Insufflator™. Their platinum pharmacokinetics were established over 48 h in lungs, total blood and non-target organs vs. IV and endotracheal nebulization (EN). EN and F1@sub_beginB@sub_end were rapidly distributed from the lungs (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end@sup_begini@sup_end 2.6 and 5.0 min). F2@sub_beginB@sub_end was eliminated in ∼1 h (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end@sup_begini@sup_end 9.0 min). F3@sub_beginB@sub_end lung retention was sustained for ∼7 h (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end@sup_begini@sup_end 59.9 min), increasing lung AUC 11-, 4- and 3-fold vs. IV, F1@sub_beginB@sub_end and F2@sub_beginB@sub_end. Total blood t@sub_beginmax@sub_end were higher and AUC and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end lower using the pulmonary route vs. IV. Kidney C@sub_beginmax@sub_end was reduced 6-, 2- and 3-fold for F1@sub_beginB@sub_end, F2@sub_beginB@sub_end and F3@sub_beginB@sub_end. AUC in kidneys were 2- to 3-fold lower for F1@sub_beginB@sub_end and F2@sub_beginB@sub_end vs. IV but comparable for IV vs. F3@sub_beginB@sub_end, probably because of kidney saturation. PEGylated solid lipid microparticles provided cisplatin particles with interesting lung retention and CR properties.

doi:10.1046/j.1365-2125.1996.00493.x
Title:Pharmacokinetics of inhaled drugs
Authors:B.J. Lipworth
Absract:A high therapeutic ratio for the inhaled route of administration is achieved by delivering doses which achieve a high local concentration in the lung and relatively low levels of systemic absorption. Pharmacokinetic evaluation of drug absorption from the lungs provides an accurate and reproducible method for comparing different inhaler delivery systems, as well as for evaluating bioequivalence of generic drug formulations. The measurement of drug absorption from the lungs may also be applied to assess the effects of inhalation technique on drug delivery in vivo. For example with salbutamol delivered via a large volume spacer, lung bioavailability has been shown to be altered by factors such as the number of actuated puffs, inhalation-actuation delay and washing procedure. Differences in drug delivery to the lungs between dry powder reservoir and pressurised metered-dose aerosol devices translate directly into commensurate differences in clinical efficacy for delivery of both inhaled β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonists and corticosteroids. For inhaled corticosteroids, pharmacokinetic evaluation using oral charcoal to obviate alimentary absorption may be applied to quantify the relative gut and lung components of systemic bioavailability. In tandem with information on receptor potency and affinity, drug elimination and distribution, these data may help in part to explain observed differences between different inhaled corticosteroids in terms of their systemic bioactivity profiles. Studies are required to evaluate whether pharmacokinetic evaluation of lung absorption is a suitable way of quantifying delivery of nebulised aminoglycoside antibiotics, as for example in patients with cystic fibrosis. Pharmacokinetic evaluation appears to have an established role in the quantification of drug delivery to the lungs and provides important information which is complimentary to other techniques such as radiolabelled deposition. The next decade of research into pharmacokinetics of established and novel drugs and delivery systems is awaited with keen interest, and will hopefully provide a greater understanding into ways of optimising the benefit-risk ratio for inhaled drugs.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.06.027
Title:Adenosine dry powder inhalation for bronchial challenge testing, part 1: Inhaler and formulation development and in vitro performance testing
Authors:A.J. LexmondP. HagedoornE. Van Der WielN.H.T. Ten HackenH.W. FrijlinkA.H. De Boer
Absract:Dry powder administration of adenosine by use of an effective inhaler may be an interesting alternative to nebulisation of adenosine 5′- monophosphate in bronchial challenge testing, because of a shorter administration time and more consistent delivered fine particle dose over the entire dose range. In this study, we tested various powder formulations and classifier based dispersion principles and investigated the in vitro performance of the most promising formulation/classifier combination in a new test inhaler system. Spray-dried formulations of either pure adenosine (100%) or adenosine and lactose as diluent (1% and 10% adenosine) were prepared to cover the entire expected dose range for adenosine (0.01-20 mg). All three powders, in all 12 suggested doses, dispersed well with the newly developed test inhaler with a multiple air jet classifier disperser, into aerosols with an average volume median diameter of 3.1 μm (3.0-3.3 μm). For eleven out of 12 dose steps, the fine particle fractions < 5 μm as percent of the loaded dose varied within the range of 67-80% (mean: 74%). The new test concept allows for more consistent aerosol delivery over the entire dose range with narrower size distributions than nebulisation and thus may improve adenosine administration in bronchial challenge testing.© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2018.1513025
Title:Inhalable liposomes of Glycyrrhiza glabra extract for use in tuberculosis: formulation, in vitro characterization, in vivo lung deposition, and in vivo pharmacodynamic studies
Authors:V. ViswanathanR. PharandeA. BannalikarP. GuptaU. GuptaA. Mukne
Absract:Objective: The current study involves the development of liposomal dry powder for inhalation (LDPI) containing licorice extract (LE) for use in tuberculosis. Significance: The current epidemiology of tuberculosis along with the increasing emergence of resistant forms of tuberculosis necessitates the need for developing alternative efficacious medicines for treatment. Licorice is a medicinal herb with reported activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Methods: Liposomes with LE were prepared by thin film hydration technique and freeze dried to obtain LDPI. The comprehensive in vitro and in vivo characterization of the LDPI formulation was carried out. Results: The particle size of liposomes was around 210 nm with drug entrapment of almost 75%. Transmission electron microscopy revealed spherical shape of liposome vesicles. The flow properties of the LDPI were within acceptable limits. Anderson Cascade Impactor studies showed the mean median aerodynamic diameter, geometric standard deviation and fine particle fraction of the LDPI to be 4.29 µm, 1.23, and 54.68%, respectively. In vivo lung deposition studies of LDPI in mice showed that almost 46% of the drug administered reaches the lungs and 16% of administered drug is retained in the lungs after 24 hours of administration. The in vivo pharmacodynamic evaluation of the LDPI showed significant reduction in bacterial counts in lungs as well as spleen of TB-infected mice. Conclusions: LE LDPI thus has a promising potential to be explored as an effective anti-tubercular medicine or as an adjunct to existing anti-tubercular drugs.

doi:10.3109/10717544.2014.965801
Title:Development and clinical study of submicronic-atropine sulphate respiratory fluid as a novel organophosphorous poisoning antidote
Authors:G. MittalN. KumarH. RawatA. JaiminiM. ChhillarA. Bhatnagar
Absract:Context: Increased use of organophosphate insecticides (OPI) and possibility of terror groups using stocks of nerve agents underscore the need to develop effective and safe antidotes. While intramuscular administration of antidotes like atropine sulphate (AS) has certain lacunae, intravenous route may not be always feasible in emergency field conditions. Objective: Objective was (a) to develop a novel inhalable submicronic-AS respiratory fluid as potential antidote for OPI poisoning, (b) in-vitro and in-vivo evaluation in terms of respiratory fraction, and (c) clinical study to assess drug bioavailability in blood and atropinization pattern post-inhalation. Methods: Formulation was optimized on the basis of particle size of aerosolized droplets and in-vitro nebulization rate. Anderson cascade impaction (ACI) studies were carried out to validate the advantage of test formulation in terms of respirable fraction. Six healthy volunteers were inhaled the test formulation and blood bioavailability and atropinization were noted serially. Gamma scintigraphy was used to quantify total and regional lung deposition of nebulized AS in-vivo. Results: The formulation was optimized using 30% ethanol–saline with particle size in the range of 350–500 nm. In-vitro ACI data showed high respirable fraction (82.6 ± 3.1%) for the test formulation. In-vivo scintigraphy suggested whole lung deposition of 80.2 ± 6.8% of the total inhaled dose. Early blood bioavailability and atropinization pattern confirmed that therapeutic concentration of the drug in blood was reached within 5 min. Conclusions: 3% submicronic-AS respiratory fluid might be used as potential prophylactic/therapeutic option against OPI poisoning with several advantages over intramuscular injection, including early blood bioavailability and atropinization.

doi:10.1111/jphp.12541
Title:The function and performance of aqueous aerosol devices for inhalation therapy
Authors:T.C. CarvalhoJ.T. McConville
Absract:Objectives In this review paper, we explore the interaction between the functioning mechanism of different nebulizers and the physicochemical properties of the formulations for several types of devices, namely jet, ultrasonic and vibrating-mesh nebulizers; colliding and extruded jets; electrohydrodynamic mechanism; surface acoustic wave microfluidic atomization; and capillary aerosol generation. Key findings Nebulization is the transformation of bulk liquids into droplets. For inhalation therapy, nebulizers are widely used to aerosolize aqueous systems, such as solutions and suspensions. The interaction between the functioning mechanism of different nebulizers and the physicochemical properties of the formulations plays a significant role in the performance of aerosol generation appropriate for pulmonary delivery. Certain types of nebulizers have consistently presented temperature increase during the nebulization event. Therefore, careful consideration should be given when evaluating thermo-labile drugs, such as protein therapeutics. We also present the general approaches for characterization of nebulizer formulations. Summary In conclusion, the interplay between the dosage form (i.e. Aqueous systems) and the specific type of device for aerosol generation determines the effectiveness of drug delivery in nebulization therapies, thus requiring extensive understanding and characterization.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.08.005
Title:Delivery of theophylline as dry powder for inhalation
Authors:B. ZhuM. HaghiA. NguyenM. GoudS. YeungP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Theophylline (TP) is a very well established orally or intravenously delivered antiasthma drug with many beneficial effects. This study aims to improve asthma treatment by creating a dry powder inhalable (DPI) formulation of TP to be delivered directly to the lung, avoiding the side effects associated with conventional oral delivery. The DPI TP formulation was investigated for its physico-chemical characteristics using scanning electron microscopy, laser diffraction, thermal analysis and dynamic vapour sorption. Furthermore, aerosol performance was assessed using the Multi Stage Liquid Impinger (MSLI). In addition, a Calu-3 cell transport assay was conducted in vitro using a modified ACI to study the impact of the DPI formulation on lung epithelial cells. Results showed DPI TP to be physico-chemically stable and of an aerodynamic size suitable for lung delivery. The aerosolisation performance analysis showed the TP DPI formulation to have a fine particle fraction of 29.70 ± 2.59% (P < 0.05) for the TP formulation containing 1.0% (w/w) sodium stearate, the most efficient for aerosolisation. Regarding the deposition of TP DPI on Calu-3 cells using the modified ACI, results demonstrated that 56.14 ± 7.62% of the total TP deposited (13.07 ± 1.69 μg) was transported across the Calu-3 monolayer over 180 min following deposition, while 37.05 ± 12.62% of the deposited TP was retained in the cells. This could be due to the presence of sodium stearate in the current formulation that increased its lipophilicity. A DPI formulation of TP was developed that was shown to be suitable for inhalation.

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9012-7
Title:The influence of fine excipient particles on the performance of carrier-based dry powder inhalation formulations
Authors:M.D. JonesR. Price
Absract:The inclusion of a small amount of fine particle excipient in a carrier-based dry powder inhalation system is a well researched technique to improve formulation performance and is employed in the pharmaceutical industry. The removal of intrinsic fines from a lactose carrier has been found to decrease formulation performance, whereas adding fines of many different materials into formulations increased performance. Changing the particle size of these fines, the amount added and the technique by which they were prepared also affected formulation behaviour. Despite this body of research, there is disagreement as to the mechanism by which fines improved formulation performance, with two main hypotheses presented in the literature. The first hypothesis suggested that fines prevent the drug from adhering to the strongest binding sites on the carrier, whilst the second proposed that fine particles of drug and excipient form mixed agglomerates that are more easily dispersed and deaggregated during aerosolisation. The evidence in support of each hypothesis is limited and it is clear that future research should aim to produce stronger mechanistic evidence. The investigation of interparticulate interactions using techniques such as atomic force microscopy and inverse gas chromatography may prove useful in achieving this aim. © 2006 Springer Science + Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.curtheres.2003.10.003
Title:Treatment of Diaphragmatic Fatigue with Inhaled Aminophylline Therapy in an Experimental Canine Model: An Open-Label, Dose-Ranging, Pharmacologic Study
Authors:Y. Fujii
Absract:Background: Diaphragmatic fatigue may contribute to the development of respiratory failure. Although aminophylline administered IV has been widely used to treat diaphragmatic fatigue, to date it has not been used in aerosol formulation for this purpose. Objective: The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of inhaled aminophylline on contractility of fatigued diaphragm in an experimental canine model. Methods: This open-label, dose-ranging, pharmacologic study was conducted at the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Tsukuba Institute of Clinical Medicine, Tsukuba (Ibaraki, Japan). Diaphragmatic fatigue was induced in healthy, male, mongrel dogs by intermittent supramaximal bilateral electrophrenic stimulation at a low frequency (20 Hz) applied for 30 minutes. Immediately after the end of the fatigue-producing period, group 1 received inhaled vehicle only, group 2 received inhaled aminophylline 12.5 mg/mL, group 3 received inhaled aminophylline 25 mg/mL, and group 4 was infused with verapamil 0.1 mg/kg·min during inhalation of aminophylline 25 mg/mL. Diaphragmatic contractility was assessed using transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdi). Results: Twenty-eight dogs were used in the study (7 dogs were assigned to each treatment group). When fatigue was established, Pdi at low-frequency stimulation decreased significantly from baseline in all groups (all P < 0.05), and no significant change in Pdi was found at high-frequency stimulation. In groups 2 and 3, during aminophylline inhalation, Pdi at 20-Hz stimulation increased significantly from fatigued values (both P < 0.05). Pdi increased significantly more in group 3 than in group 2 (P < 0.05). In group 4, infusion of verapamil offset the increase in Pdi seen with aerosolized aminophylline in fatigued diaphragm. The integrated electrical activity of the diaphragm did not change significantly in any group. Conclusions: Inhaled aminophylline significantly improved contractility of fatigued diaphragm in a dose-related manner in this experimental canine model (P < 0.05). Its potent effect may be caused by transmembrane calcium movement. Copyright © 2003 Excerpta Medica, Inc.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13081300
Title:Pulmonary delivery of curcumin and beclomethasone dipropionate in a multicomponent nanosuspension for the treatment of bronchial asthma
Authors:L. CasulaF. LaiE. PiniD. ValentiC. SinicoM.C. CardiaS. MarcedduG. AilunoA.M. Fadda
Absract:Curcumin has shown a potential extraordinary activity as an add-on ingredient in asthma treatment, due to its immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory mechanism of action. However, its low water solubility and bioavailability lead to a poor therapeutic effect, which can be overcome by its formulation as nanocrystals. The aim of this study was to prepare a multicomponent formulation for the delivery of curcumin (CUR) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) into the lungs as water-based nanosuspensions (NS). Single component formulations (CUR-NS, BDP-NS) and a multicomponent formulation (CUR+BDP-NS) were prepared through a wet ball media milling technique, using P188 as a non-toxic stabilizer. Characterization was carried out in terms of size, size distribution, zeta potential, nanocrystals morphology, and solid-state properties. Moreover, the inhalation delivery efficiency was studied with Next Generation Impactor (NGI, Apparatus E Ph. Eu). CUR-NS was optimized and showed a long-term stability and improved nanocrystals apparent solubility. The three formulations exhibited a nanocrystal mean diameter in the range of 200–240 nm and a homogenous particle size distribution. Aggregation or sedimentation phenomena were not observed in the multicomponent formulation on 90 days storage at room temperature. Finally, the nebulization tests of the three samples showed optimal aerodynamic parameters and MMAD < 5 µm.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2012.654793
Title:Micronized drug powders in binary mixtures and the effect of physical properties on aerosolization from combination drug dry powder inhalers
Authors:K. JetmalaniP.M. YoungT. SmithP. StewartD. Traini
Absract:Objectives: To evaluate physicochemical properties of two micronized drugs, salbutamol sulfate (SS) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) prepared as dry powder inhalation physical blends. Methods: Five different blends of SS:BDP ratios of 0:100, 25:75, 50:50, 75:25, and 100:0 (w/w) were prepared. Aerosolization performance was evaluated using a multistage impinger and a Rotahaler® device. Results: The median SS particle diameter was larger than BDP (4.33 ± 0.37 μm compared to 2.99 ± 0.15 μm, respectively). The SS appeared to have a ribbon-like morphology, while BDP particles had plate-like shape with higher cohesion than SS. This was reflected in the aerosolization performance of the two drugs alone, where SS had a significantly higher fine particle fraction (FPF) than BDP (12.3%, 3.1% and 2.9%, 0.2%, respectively). The study of cohesion versus adhesion for a series of SS and BDP probes on SS and BDP substrates suggested both to be moderately adhesive, verified using scanning Raman microscopy, where a physical association between the two was observed. A plot of loaded versus emitted dose indicated that powder bed fluidization was significantly different when the drugs were tested individually. Furthermore, the FPF of the two drugs from the binary blends, at all three ratios, were similar. Conclusions: Such observations indicate that when these two drugs are formulated as a binary system, the resulting powder structure is altered and the aerosolization performance of each drug is not reflective of the individual drug performance. Such factors could have important implications and should be considered when developing combination dry powder inhalation systems. © 2012 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2010.03.020
Title:Co-spray-dried mannitol-ciprofloxacin dry powder inhaler formulation for cystic fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:H. AdiP.M. YoungH.-K. ChanH. AgusD. Traini
Absract:The aim of this study was to assess the potential of delivering a combination therapy, containing mannitol (a sugar alcohol with osmotic characteristics), and ciprofloxacin hydrochloride (an antibacterial fluoroquinolone), as a dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation for inhalation. Single and combination powders were produced by spray drying ciprofloxacin and mannitol, from aqueous solution, at different ratios and under controlled conditions, as to obtain similar particle size distributions. Each formulation was characterised using laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, dynamic vapour sorption, X-ray powder diffraction, and colloidal force microscopy. The in vitro aerosol performance of each formulation was studied using an Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end DPI device and a multi-stage liquid impinger (analysed using high performance liquid chromatography). In addition, a disk diffusion test was performed to assess the in vitro antimicrobial activity of each formulation and starting materials. All formulations had similar particle size distributions, however, the morphology, thermal properties and moisture sorption was dependent on the relative percentages of each component. In general, the combination formulation containing 50% (w/w) mannitol appeared to have the best aerosol performance, good stability and lowest particle cohesion (as measured by colloid probe microscopy). Furthermore, of the formulations tested, mannitol did not appear to alter the effectiveness of the ciprofloxacin antimicrobial activity to Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus pyogenes. The combination of co-spray-dried mannitol and ciprofloxacin from a DPI is an attractive approach to promote mucous clearance in the respiratory tract while simultaneously treating local chronic infection, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis. © 2010.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2021.07.017
Title:Porous particles and novel carrier particles with enhanced penetration for efficient pulmonary delivery of antitubercular drugs
Authors:J.Y. TseA. KoikeK. KadotaH. UchiyamaK. FujimoriY. Tozuka
Absract:This study aimed to design dry powder inhaler formulations using a hydrophilic polymeric polysaccharide, phytoglycogen (PyG), as a multi-functional additive that increases the phagocytic activity of macrophage-like cells and enhances pulmonary delivery of drugs. The safety and usefulness of PyG were determined using in vitro cell-based studies. Dry powder inhaler formulations of an antitubercular drug, rifampicin, were fabricated by spray drying with PyG. The cytotoxicity, effects on phagocytosis, particle size, and morphology were evaluated. The aerosolization properties of the powder formulations were evaluated using an Andersen cascade impactor (ACI). Scanning electron microscope images of the particles on each ACI stage were captured to observe the deposition behavior. PyG showed no toxicity in A549, Calu-3, or RAW264.7 cell lines. At concentrations of 0.5 and 1 g/L, PyG facilitated the cellular uptake of latex beads and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes in RAW264.7 cells. Formulations with outstanding inhalation potential were produced. The fine particle fraction (aerodynamic size 2–7 µm) of the porous particle batch reached nearly 60%, whereas in the formulation containing wrinkled carrier particles, the extra-fine particle fraction (aerodynamic particle size < 2 μm) was 25.0% ± 1.7%. The deposition of porous and wrinkled particles on individual ACI stages was distinct. The inclusion of PyG dramatically improved the inhalation performance of porous and wrinkled powder formulations. These easily inhaled immunostimulatory carrier particles may advance the state of research by enhancing the therapeutic effect and alveolar delivery of antitubercular drugs.

pui:630349924
Title:Extended release of inhaled liposomal treprostinil able to prolong and improve reduction of pulmonary arterial pressure in hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension rats
Authors:P. KanK. ChenC. Han
Absract:RATIONALE: Inhaled prostacyclins are important therapies for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). It is known that multiple prostanoid receptors may play both vascular dilation and constriction on pulmonary artery within a particular range of prostacyclin concentrations. Inhaled liposomal treprostinil had demonstrated sustained release profile and reduced irritation in animals. In this study, extended release and steady plasma level of inhaled formulation reveal the potentials of not only prolonging but also improving the pharmacological effect in hypoxia-induced PAH rats. METHODS: Sprague-Dawley rats were surgically placed with a pressure catheter in pulmonary artery. On the following day of surgery, the instrumented rats were transferred into a hypoxic chamber with 10% oxygen (FiO@sub_begin2@sub_end=0.1). Once stable pulmonary hypertension was reached, liposomal treprostinil, TRE solution or negative control solution (saline) was administered using a microsprayer. At the given interval, the pulmonary pressure was monitored and blood sample was taken for pharmacokinetics analysis. RESULTS&DISCUSSIONS: Rats in the hypoxia chamber showed a stable and sustained pulmonary hypertension for 14 hours during the entire experiment period. Inhalation of TRE solution indicated a similar pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP) reduction pattern as observed in the previous animal and human pharmacodynamics studies. A quick drop in PAP post administration of TRE solution was followed with a slow rise returning to baseline. At the same dose, liposomal treprostinil shows a prolonged reduction of PAP for more than 8 hours. Interestingly, an enhanced effect on reduction of PAP was seen. It could be explained by the complicated actions exerted by multiple prostanoid receptors on pulmonary vasculature in response to high peak-trough fluctuation of inhaled immediate-release formulation. CONCLUSIONS: Inhaled liposomal treprostinil is an extended-release formulation which may alleviate upper airway irritation and reduce dosing frequency. The extended release with steady plasma level is also beneficial to improve the pharmacological effect by minimizing simultaneous interactions of multiple prostanoid receptors located on pulmonary vasculature.

doi:10.1208/s12249-018-1013-4
Title:Bioactivity, Safety, and Efficacy of Amphotericin B Nanomicellar Aerosols Using Sodium Deoxycholate Sulfate as the Lipid Carrier
Authors:F. UsmanR. KhalilZ. Ul-HaqT. NakphengT. Srichana
Absract:We report nanomicelles of amphotericin B (AmB) using various molar ratios of AmB and sodium deoxycholate sulfate (SDCS) for inhalation with improved stability, solubility, bioactivity, and safety. The particle sizes of all aerosolized formulations are expressed as mass median aerodynamic diameter (0.9–1.6 μm), fine particle fraction (70.3–86.5%), and geometric standard deviation (1.4–2.1) which indicated their sizes are appropriate for use as an inhaler. In vitro cytotoxicity studies conducted using respiratory and kidney cell lines demonstrated that the marketed Fungizone@sup_begin®@sup_end was toxic to macrophage and embryonic kidney cells and cell viability decreased from 96 to 48% and from 97 to 67%, respectively when the AmB equivalent concentration was increased from 1 to 16 μg/mL. However, AmB-SDCS formulations showed no evidence of toxicity even up to 8 μg/mL compared to Fungizone@sup_begin®@sup_end. Minimum inhibitory and fungicidal concentrations were significantly reduced against Cryptococcus neoformans, and Candida albicans. Also, antileishmanial activity significantly improved for AmB-SDCS formulations. There was an evidence of phagocytosis of the AmB-SDCS formulation by alveolar macrophages NR 8383. Molecular modeling studies suggested the role of hydrogen bonding in stabilization of the AmB-SDCS complex. This study indicated that AmB-SDCS nanomicelles can be used to design a safe and cost-effective AmB for inhalation. [Figure not available: see fulltext.].

doi:10.1001/archpedi.154.12.1219
Title:Clinical comparability of ventolin formulated with hydrofluoroalkane or conventional chlorofluorocarbon propellants in children with asthma
Authors:G. ShapiroE. BronskyA. MurrayF. BarnhartA. VanderMeerC. Reisner
Absract:Background: Aerosolized asthma medications with chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellants are being phased out because of environmental concerns about the ozone layer. Medications are being reformulated with non-ozone-depleting propellants. Objective: To evaluate the clinical comparability of albuterol sulfate formulated in a new hydrofluoroalkane-134a (HFA) propellant (Ventolin HFA Inhalation Aerosol), and conventional CFC-containing albuterol (Ventolin Inhalation Aerosol) in children with asthma. Design: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 2-week clinical trial with a 1- to 2-week run-in period. During the run-in, patients took Ventolin CFC as needed. Patients (n=135) aged 4 to 11 years with asthma then were assigned randomly to treatment with Ventolin HFA, Ventolin CFC, or placebo administered 4 times daily via metered-dose inhaler for 2 weeks. All patients were allowed rescue albuterol use in matching propellant as needed for relief of breakthrough symptoms. The main outcome measure was the mean percentage of predicted peak expiratory flow (PEF) after the morning dose of study drug on day 1 and after 2 weeks as assessed by results of 6-hour serial tests. Results: At day 1, the mean (± SE) percentage of predicted PEF increased postdose by 14% (± 1%) in the Ventolin HFA group and 13% (± 1%) in the Ventolin CFC group compared with 6% (± 2%) in the placebo group (P≤.006). At week 2, mean postdose increases were 11% (± 1%) in the Ventolin HFA and CFC groups compared with 5% (± 1%) in the placebo group (P<.001). There were no significant differences between the Ventolin HFA and CFC groups in postdose increases in pulmonary function, time to onset of response, duration of response, or peak effects. Safety profiles were similar among the 3 groups. Conclusion: Ventolin HFA is clinically comparable to Ventolin formulated with the conventional CFC-containing propellant when administered to children with asthma.

pui:24277024
Title:Drug delivery via the respiratory tract
Authors:P.R. ByronJ.S. Patton
Absract:Inhalation offers an enormous absorptive surface area for rapid drug absorption and substantial absorption of polypeptides. Due to slow clearance from the lower lung, even compounds with very small absorption rates can be absorbed in significant quantities over 10-12h periods. Aerosol dosimetry problems can also be minimized when lung-normal patients are considered. In the near future, optimal formulations will be combined with modified aerosol delivery devices to achieve reproducible dosing. These will be used as alternatives to parenteral delivery for drug doses of the order of milligrams or less. Research on the molecular structural dependence of lung disposition is in its infancy. Absorption kinetics for small molecules are known to depend on lipophilicity and molecular size. For macromolecules however, electronic charge and site of deposition may be additional determinants of bioavailability. Carrier-mediated absorption processes may also be important. The pulmonary absorption of a number of molecules is reviewed with special emphasis on new and promising products of biotechnology like human insulin and human growth hormone. Delivery improvements in the future should ensure, ideally, that nondenatured, monomeric pure compounds are delivered reproducibly and predominantly to the lung itself, so that these compounds may elicit reproducible systemic effects following absorption.

doi:10.1016/j.cocis.2017.06.003
Title:Polymer-drug conjugates as inhalable drug delivery systems: A review
Authors:N. MarasiniS. HaqueL.M. Kaminskas
Absract:Accelerating interest by the pharmaceutical industry in the identification and development of less invasive routes of nanomedicine administration, coupled with defined efforts to improve the treatment of respiratory diseases through inhaled drug administration has fuelled growing interests in inhalable polymer-drug conjugates. Polymer-drug conjugates can alter the pharmacokinetic profile of the loaded drug after inhaled administration and enable the controlled and sustained exposure of the lungs to drugs when compared to the inhaled or oral administration of the drug alone. However, the major concern with the use of inhalable polymer-drug conjugates is their biocompatibility and long-term safety in the lungs, which is closely linked to lung retention times. A detailed understanding about the pharmacokinetics, lung disposition, clearance and safety of inhaled polymer-drug conjugates with significant translational potential is therefore required. This review therefore provides a comprehensive summary of the latest developments for several types of polymer-drug conjugates that are currently being explored as inhalable drug delivery systems. Finally, the current status and future perspective of the polymer-drug conjugates is also discussed with a focus on current knowledge gaps.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2015.04.016
Title:The formulation of a pressurized metered dose inhaler containing theophylline for inhalation
Authors:B. ZhuM. HaghiM. GoudP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Background Theophylline (TP) is a bronchodilator used orally to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) that has been associated with multiple side effects, tempering its present use. This study aims to improve COPD treatment by creating a low-dose pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) inhalable formulation of TP. Methods Aerosol performance was assessed using Andersen Cascade Impaction (ACI). Solubility of TP in HFA 134/ethanol mixture was measured and morphology of the particles analyzed with a scanning electron microscope (SEM). Calu-3 cell viability, epithelial cell transport and inflammatory-response assays were conducted to study the impact of the formulation on lung epithelial cells. Results The mass deposition profile of the formulation showed an emitted dose of 250.04 ± 14.48 μg per 5 actuations, achieving the designed nominal dose (50 μg/dose). SEM showed that the emitted particles were hollow with spherical morphology. Approximately 98% of TP was transported across Calu-3 epithelial cells and the concentration of interleukin-8 secreted from Calu-3 cells following stimulation with tissue necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) resulted in significantly lower level of interleukin-8 released from the cells pre-treated with TP (1.92 ± 0.77 ng·ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end TP treated vs. 8.83 ± 2.05 ng·ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end TNF-α stimulated, respectively). Conclusions The solution pMDI formulation of TP developed in present study was shown to be suitable for inhalation and demonstrated anti-inflammatory effects at low doses in Calu-3 cell model.

doi:10.1080/10837450600769637
Title:Manufacture, characterization, and pharmacodynamic evaluation of engineered ipratropium bromide particles
Authors:M.K. TaylorA.J. HickeyM. VanOort
Absract:Purpose. The intent of this research was to generate and characterize respirable particles of ipratropium bromide (IPB), a short-acting anticholinergic bronchodilator, to achieve demonstrable sustained-release properties. The value of a long-acting anticholinergic agent is evident in the use of tiotropium for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Methods. Hollow, spherical particles of ipratropium bromide suitable for inhalation were generated using a spray-drying process and characterized by laser diffraction particle size analysis, scanning electron microscopy, dynamic vapor sorption, X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, thermogravimetric analysis, and dissolution testing. Experimental design techniques were used to identify critical process parameters and optimize the spray drying process. Pharmacodynamic studies were conducted to determine duration of effect. Results. Crystalline, stable, respirable particles with a range of dissolution profiles were manufactured by application of polylactic acid (PLA) coatings of 1, 5, 10, 15, 30, and 50% w/w. A novel, robust, modified Type IV dissolution method discriminated between formulations and guided their development. Preliminary studies in guinea pigs indicated an increased duration of bronchodilatory effect for 30% PLA-coated particles (56.3 min) particles compared with IPB powders alone (11.0 min). Conclusions. Sustained-release respirable particles of ipratropium bromide were developed using a PLA spray coating approach and a trend for increased duration of effect was demonstrated in guinea pigs. Copyright © Informa Healthcare.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(01)00870-5
Title:Preparation and characterisation of hydrocortisone particles using a supercritical fluids extraction process
Authors:S.P. VelagaR. GhaderiJ. Carlfors
Absract:Crystallisation and subsequent milling of pharmaceutical powders by traditional methods often cause variations in physicochemical properties thereby influencing bioavailability of the formulation. Crystallisation of drug substances using supercritical fluids (SFs) offers some advantages over existing traditional methods in controlling particle characteristics. The novel particle formation method, solution enhanced dispersion by supercritical (SEDS) fluids was used for the preparation of hydrocortisone (HC) particles. The influence of processing conditions on the solid-state properties of the particles was studied. HC, an anti-inflammatory corticosteroid, particles were prepared from acetone and methanol solutions using the SEDS process. The solutions were dispersed with supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end, acting as an anti-solvent, through a specially designed co-axial nozzle into a pressured vessel maintained at a specific constant temperature and pressure. The temperatures and pressures studied were 40-90°C and 90-180 bar, respectively. The relative flow rates of drug solution to CO@sub_begin2@sub_end were varied between 0.002 and 0.03. Solid-state characterisation of particles included differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), solubility studies and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) examination. The aerodynamic properties of SEDS prepared particles were determined by a multistage liquid impinger (MLI). Particles produced from acetone solutions were crystalline needles, melting at 221±2°C. Their morphology was independent of processing conditions. With methanol solutions, particles were flakes or needles depending on the processing temperature and pressure. This material melted at 216±1°C, indicating a different crystal structure from the original material, in agreement with observed differences in the position and intensity of the XRPD peaks. The simulated lung deposition, using the MLI, for HC powder was improved after SEDS processing. It was possible to produce and control the crystallinity, morphology, and aerodynamic properties of HC particles with the SEDS technique. This method may be useful for the processing of inhalation powders. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.119000
Title:Exploring the influence of drug content on DPI powder properties and potential prediction of pulmonary drug deposition
Authors:Y. SunL. QinC. LiuJ. SuX. ZhangD. YuC. GuoH. LuL. LiW. XiongS. Mao
Absract:Based on dry powder inhaler (DPI) inhalation process, powder properties have a key influence on fluidization and deagglomeration behavior during aerosol generation. The aim of this study was to explore the influence of drug content on DPI powder properties and further reveal the correlations between powder properties and pulmonary deposition efficiency. Using salbutamol sulfate as a model drug, Lactohale® 100 as carrier, carrier-based binary mixtures were prepared at drug content from 0.5 to 10% (w/w), characterized with powder rheometer, faraday cage and Next Generation Impactor. It was demonstrated that drug content had a remarkable influence on powder behavior, and good correlations between powder properties and fine particle fraction (FPF) were established in drug content range 0.5–7%. A negative correlation between basic flowability energy and FPF, reflected a good flowability is beneficial for powder fluidization. Further properties characterization, including aeration ratio, permeability, pre-shear stress and aerodynamic specific charge, suggested a strong interaction is beneficial for powder deagglomeration. It's the first time that interaction indicator and flowability indicator were extracted with principal component analysis (PCA). In conclusion, drug content has a significant influence on powder properties. DPI formulations with a stronger interaction and meanwhile a better flowability are desirable for enhanced pulmonary drug delivery.

doi:10.1002/jps.21239
Title:Cospray dried antibiotics for dry powder lung delivery
Authors:H. AdiP.M. YoungH.-K. ChanP. StewartH. AgusD. Traini
Absract:The aim of this study was to assess the potential of delivering a combination antibiotic therapy, containing doxycycline and ciprofloxacin (both hydrochloride) as a dry powder (DPI) formulation for inhalation. Single and combination antibiotics were produced by spray drying. Particle size distributions were characterized by laser diffraction and imaging conducted by scanning electron microscopy. Solid-state characterisation of the antibiotics was carried out using differential scanning calori-metry, dynamic vapour sorption, X-ray powder diffraction, and differential scanning calorimetry. Using the Aerolizer® device, the aerosol performance was measured using multistage liquid impinger and analysed using high performance liquid chromato-graphy (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 1.0, CV = 0.4-1.0%). Furthermore, a disk diffusion test was performed for the assessment of the in vitro antimicrobial activity of the raw and spray dried antibiotics against bacteria. Results showed that cospray drying of the ciprofloxacin and doxycycline produced an antibiotic formulation (in a 1:1 ratio) suitable for inhalation that showed to be physically more stable then the analogous single spray dried antibiotic. The cospray dried powder has improved dispersion over the less stable single spray dried ciprofloxacin. The spray dried antibiotics were observed to have similar antimicrobial activity to the original antibiotics for Staphylococcus aureus, Pseu-domonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus pyrogenes, suggesting the spray drying process does not affect the anti-bacterial activity of the drug. Cospray dried antibiotics from a DPI is thus feasible and can potentially be an attractive delivery alternative to the more conventional systemic delivery route. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2017.1377
Title:Model Calculations of Regional Deposition and Disposition for Single Doses of Inhaled Liposomal and Dry Powder Ciprofloxacin
Authors:A.R. MartinW.H. Finlay
Absract:Background: Model predictions of regional deposition in the respiratory tract are useful in assessing factors that influence the effectiveness of aerosol delivery. Regional deposition models have previously been coupled with models of mucous production and clearance to estimate initial concentrations of drug deposited in the airway surface liquid (ASL) lining tracheobronchial airways. Methods: Established models of regional deposition and ASL volumes were used to provide input to a new model evaluating the disposition of drug resulting from dissolution or release, absorption, and mucociliary clearance. Additional modeling of oral absorption, distribution, and elimination allowed prediction of systemic exposure. Herein, predicted ASL and plasma concentrations of free (dissolved or unencapsulated) ciprofloxacin over time are reported for a healthy, adult lung model following inhalation of single doses of nebulized liposomal (6 mL of liposomal ciprofloxacin for inhalation, 50 mg/mL, or 6 mL of Pulmaquin, 210 mg; Aradigm) and dry powder (32.5 and 65 mg doses; Bayer) formulations. Results: Over a range of mucous production rates and tracheal clearance velocities, peak ASL concentrations of free ciprofloxacin were consistently greater for Pulmaquin than for other formulations investigated, owing to the presence of free drug in the nebulized Pulmaquin formulation. The time that ASL concentrations of free drug remained above the minimum inhibitory concentration for Pseudomonas aeruginosa was similar for all four formulations. Predicted plasma ciprofloxacin concentration profiles were in good agreement with available data from Phase I trials in healthy volunteers. Conclusions: Predictions of ASL drug concentrations over time are valuable in elucidating the roles of deposition, drug release or dissolution, and disposition on the effectiveness of inhaled aerosol therapies. For inhaled ciprofloxacin, the present results predict similar ASL concentrations of free drug over time following single doses of inhaled liposomal and dry powder formulations. The impact of multiple doses and airway disease warrants further consideration.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2012.728229
Title:Methods for reduction of cohesive forces between carrier and drug in DPI formulation
Authors:S.S. DesaiA.A. AherP.T. Kadaskar
Absract:Dry powder inhaler (DPI) has become a well accepted drug delivery for pulmonary system to treat many related diseases including symptomatic and life threatening diseases. Successful delivery of dry powder to the lung requires careful consideration of powder production process, formulation and inhaler device. The formulation of DPI mostly comprises of lactose as a carrier for drug delivery. In DPI formulation, particulate interactions within the formulation govern both the drug dissociation from carrier particles and the disaggregation of drug into primary particles with a capacity to penetrate deep into lung. Two contradictory requirements must be fulfilled for this type of dry powder formulation. On one hand, adhesion between carrier and drug must be sufficient for the blend drug/carrier to be stable. On the other hand, adhesion drug/carrier has to be weak enough to enable the release of drug from carrier during patient inhalation. Thus the carrier use restricted due to detachment problem. Different methods are proposed to reduce the cohesive forces between drug and carrier to desired level. Various studies conducted for understanding the mechanism of deposition into lungs and making formulation with optimum carrier drug cohesive force. This review provides information on various processes involved in reducing the cohesive forces between drug and carrier, to a required level. © 2013 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

pui:32220243
Title:Factors affecting the efficiency of aerosol therapy with pressurised metered-dose inhalers through plastic spacers
Authors:A.A. ChuffartF.H. SennhauserJ.H. Wildhaber
Absract:Aim: The main objective of this study was to compare the in vitro delivery of salbutamol from a chlorofluorocarbon(CFC)-propelled pressurised metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) versus a newly developed hydrofluoroalkane(HFA)-propelled pMDI through various spacers. In addition, we aimed to study the effect on bronchodilator response when using an optimal pMDI/spacer combination for aerosol delivery compared to a sub-optimal combination. Methods: Particle size distribution and output from salbutamol pMDIs containing either CFC propellants (Ventolin®) or HFA propellants (Airomir®) were measured using a multistage liquid impinger (MSLI) and compared to that through both detergent-coated (non-static) or untreated (static) large volume (Nebuhaler®, Volumatic®) and small volume (Aerochamber®) plastic spacers. Flow-volume curves (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) were obtained from twelve asthmatic children with known significant bronchodilator response (8 males), aged 13-17 years, randomly inhaling salbutamol from a CFC-pMDI through a static spacer (Nebuhaler®) and from an HFA-pMDI through a non-static spacer (Nebuhaler®). Results: In vitro output of particles in the respirable range (<6.8 μm) from HFA-pMDIs was significantly higher than that from CFC-pMDIs using various spacers. Removal of electrostatic charge increased output from CFC- and HFA-pMDIs through all spacers by 17-82%. The mean (SD) bronchodilator response after inhalation of salbutamol from a CFC-pMDI through a static spacer was 7.1% (6.3%) compared to 17.5% (7.9%) after inhalation from an HFA-pMDI through a non-static spacer (p = 0.002). Conclusions: Use of a newly developed HFA-propelled pMDI greatly improves drug delivery through spacers compared to a CFC-propelled pMDI. However, electrostatic charge in plastic spacers remains the key determinant limiting delivery of salbutamol from a pMDI through spacers, and can be reduced by soaking the spacer in a household detergent. Using an optimal pMDI/spacer combination leads to a significantly improved bronchodilator response.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_15
Title:Nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery
Authors:A.B. WattsR.O. Williams III
Absract:This chapter aims to provide a rational for the use of nanoparticles in pulmonary delivery as well as an overview of strategies and physiological implications of nanoparticle delivery to the lungs. Formulation aspects of nanoparticle systems in the form of liquid dispersions and inhaled dry powders are also reviewed. The chapter also addresses the expanse of lung toxicology research surrounding the inhalation of nanoparticulate pollutants present in the environment. The observations of the adsorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) of these insoluble nanoparticles may lead to a greater understanding of biological interactions of inhaled drug nanoparticles and their ultimate site of action. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1023/A:1012035113276
Title:Spray dried powders and powder blends of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease (rhDNase) for aerosol delivery
Authors:H.-K. ChanA. ClarkI. GondaM. MumenthalerC. Hsu
Absract:Purpose. We have used rhDNase to investigate the feasibility of developing a dry protein powder aerosol for inhalation delivery. Methods. Powders of rhDNase alone and with sodium chloride were prepared by spray drying. Powder blends were obtained by mixing (tumbling and sieving) pure rhDNase powder with 'carrier' materials (lactose, mannitol or sodium chloride). The weight percent of drug in the blends was between 5 and 70%. The particle size distributions and crystallinity of the spray dried powders were obtained by laser diffraction and X-ray powder diffraction, respectively. Particle morphology was examined by scanning electron microscopy. The ability of the powders and powder blends to be dispersed into respirable aerosols was measured using a Rotahaler(TM) connected to a multistage liquid impinger operating at 60 L/min. Results. Pure rhDNase powder was quite cohesive with a fine particle fraction (FPF or 'respirable fraction': % wt. of particles <7 μm in the aerosol cloud) of about 20%. When particles also contained NaCl, the powders were dispersed better to form aerosols. A linear relationship was observed between the NaCl content and FPF for a similar primary size (~3 μm volume median diameter) of particles. The particle morphology of these powders varied systematically with the salt content. For the blends, SEM revealed a monolayer-like adhesion of the fine drug particles to the carriers at drug contents ≤50 % wt. An overall 2-fold increase in FPF of rhDNase in the aerosol cloud was obtained for all the blends compared to the pure drug aerosols. Conclusions. The aerosol properties of spray dried rhDNase powders can be controlled by incorporation of a suitable excipient, such as NaCl, and its relative proportion. Coarse carriers can also enhance the performance of rhDNase dry powder aerosols.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2019.10.026
Title:Effective mRNA pulmonary delivery by dry powder formulation of PEGylated synthetic KL4 peptide
Authors:Y. QiuR.C.H. ManQ. LiaoK.L.K. KungM.Y.T. ChowJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of messenger RNA (mRNA) has considerable potential as therapy or vaccine for a range of lung diseases. Inhaled dry powder formulation of mRNA is particularly attractive as it has superior stability and dry powder inhaler is relatively easy to use. A safe and effective mRNA delivery vector as well as a suitable particle engineering method are required to produce a dry powder formulation that is respirable and mediates robust transfection in the lung. Here, we introduce a novel RNA delivery vector, PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4, in which the synthetic cationic KL4 peptide is attached to a monodisperse linear PEG of 12-mers. The PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4 formed nano-sized complexes with mRNA at 10:1 ratio (w/w) and mediated effective transfection on human lung epithelial cells. PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4/mRNA complexes were successfully formulated into dry powder by spray drying (SD) and spray freeze drying (SFD) techniques. Both SD and SFD powder exhibited satisfactory aerosol properties for inhalation. More importantly, the biological activity of the PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4 /mRNA complexes were successfully preserved after drying. Using luciferase mRNA, the intratracheal administration of the liquid or powder aerosol of PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4 /mRNA complexes at a dose of 5 μg mRNA resulted in luciferase expression in the deep lung region of mice 24 h post-transfection. The transfection efficiency was superior to naked mRNA or lipoplexes (Lipofectamine 2000), in which luciferase expression was weaker and restricted to the tracheal region only. There was no sign of inflammatory response or toxicity of the PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4 /mRNA complexes after single intratracheal administration. Overall, PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4 is an excellent mRNA transfection agent for pulmonary delivery. This is also the first study that successfully demonstrates the preparation of inhalable dry powder mRNA formulations with in vivo transfection efficiency, showing the great promise of PEG@sub_begin12@sub_endKL4 peptide as a mRNA delivery vector candidate for clinical applications.

pui:352042401
Title:Drug delivery and nanoparticles: Applications and hazards
Authors:W.H. De JongP.J.A. Borm
Absract:The use of nanotechnology in medicine and more specifically drug delivery is set to spread rapidly. Currently many substances are under investigation for drug delivery and more specifically for cancer therapy. Interestingly pharmaceutical sciences are using nanoparticles to reduce toxicity and side effects of drugs and up to recently did not realize that carrier systems themselves may impose risks to the patient. The kind of hazards that are introduced by using nanoparticles for drug delivery are beyond that posed by conventional hazards imposed by chemicals in classical delivery matrices. For nanoparticles the knowledge on particle toxicity as obtained in inhalation toxicity shows the way how to investigate the potential hazards of nanoparticles. The toxicology of particulate matter differs from toxicology of substances as the composing chemical(s) may or may not be soluble in biological matrices, thus influencing greatly the potential exposure of various internal organs. This may vary from a rather high local exposure in the lungs and a low or neglectable exposure for other organ systems after inhalation. However, absorbed species may also influence the potential toxicity of the inhaled particles. For nanoparticles the situation is different as their size opens the potential for crossing the various biological barriers within the body. From a positive viewpoint, especially the potential to cross the blood brain barrier may open new ways for drug delivery into the brain. In addition, the nanosize also allows for access into the cell and various cellular compartments including the nucleus. A multitude of substances are currently under investigation for the preparation of nanoparticles for drug delivery, varying from biological substances like albumin, gelatine and phospholipids for liposomes, and more substances of a chemical nature like various polymers and solid metal containing nanoparticles. It is obvious that the potential interaction with tissues and cells, and the potential toxicity, greatly depends on the actual composition of the nanoparticle formulation. This paper provides an overview on some of the currently used systems for drug delivery. Besides the potential beneficial use also attention is drawn to the questions how we should proceed with the safety evaluation of the nanoparticle formulations for drug delivery. For such testing the lessons learned from particle toxicity as applied in inhalation toxicology may be of use. Although for pharmaceutical use the current requirements seem to be adequate to detect most of the adverse effects of nanoparticle formulations, it can not be expected that all aspects of nanoparticle toxicology will be detected. So, probably additional more specific testing would be needed. © 2008 Dove Medical Press Limited. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2.2.377
Title:The customised electronic nebuliser: A new category of liquid aerosol drug delivery systems
Authors:M. KnochM. Keller
Absract:Inhalation of aerosols is the preferred route of administration of pharmaceutical compounds to the lungs when treating various respiratory diseases. Inhaled antibiotics, hormones, peptides and proteins are potential candidates for direct targeting to the site of action, thus minimising systemic absorption, dilution and undesired side effects, as much lower doses (as low as a fiftieth) are sufficient to achieve a similar therapeutic effect, compared with oral administration. A quick relief from the symptoms and a good tolerance are the main advantages of aerosol therapy. A new class of electronic delivery device is now starting to enter the market. The eFlow® electronic nebuliser (PARI GmbH, Germany) provides improved portability and, in some instances, cuts treatment time to only a fraction of what has been experienced with current nebulised therapy. Drug formulations and the device can be mutually adapted and matched for optimal characteristics to meet the desired therapeutic target. Reformulation of known and proven compounds in a liquid format are commercially attractive as they present a relatively low development risk for potential drug candidates and, thus, have become a preferred pathway for the development of new inhalation products. © 2005 Ashley Publications Ltd.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200241010-00003
Title:Clinical pharmacokinetics of salmeterol
Authors:M. CazzolaR. TestiM.G. Matera
Absract:Salmeterol is an inhaled long-acting selective β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonist that is commercially available as the xinafoate (1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid) salt of the racemic mixture of the two optical isomers, (R)- and (S)-, of salmeterol. It acts locally in the lung through action on β@sub_begin2@sub_end receptors. Limited data have been published on the pharmacokinetics of salmeterol. Moreover, there are no data on the extent to which inhaled salmeterol undergoes first-pass metabolism. This lack of information is most likely due to the very low plasma concentrations reached after inhalation of therapeutic doses of salmeterol and the problems in developing an analytical method that is sensitive enough to determine these concentrations. When salmeterol is inhaled, plasma concentrations of the drug often cannot be detected, even at 30 minutes after administration of therapeutic doses. Larger inhaled doses give approximately proportionally increased blood concentrations. Plasma salmeterol concentrations of 0.1 to 0.2 and 1 to 2 μg/L have been attained in healthy volunteers about 5 to 15 minutes after inhalation of a single dose of 50 and 400 μg, respectively. In patients who inhaled salmeterol 50μg twice daily for 10 months, a second peak concentration of 0.07 to 0.2 μg/L occurred 45 to 90 minutes after inhalation, probably because of the gastrointestinal absorption of the swallowed drug. Salmeterol xinafoate dissociates in solution to salmeterol and 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid. These two compounds are then absorbed, distributed, metabolised and excreted independently. The xinafoate moiety has no apparent pharmacological activity, is highly protein bound (>99%), largely to albumin, and has a long elimination half-life of about 12 to 15 days in healthy individuals. For this reason, it accumulates in plasma during repeated administration, with steady-state concentrations reaching about 80 to 90 μg/L in patients treated with salmeterol 50μg twice daily for several months. The cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoform 3A4 is responsible for aliphatic oxidation of salmeterol base, which is extensively metabolised by hydroxylation with the major metabolite being α-hydroxysalmeterol, with subsequent elimination predominantly in the faeces. It has been demonstrated that 57.4% of administered radioactivity is recovered in the faeces and 23% in the urine; most is recovered between 24 and 72 hours after administration. Unchanged salmeterol accounts for <5% of the excreted dose in the urine. Since the therapeutic dose of salmeterol is very low, it is unlikely that any clinically relevant interactions will be observed as a consequence of the coadministration of salmeterol and other drugs, such as fluticasone propionate, that are metabolised by CYP3A. All the available data clearly show that at the recommended doses of salmeterol, systemic concentrations are low or even undetectable. This is an important point, because it has been demonstrated that the systemic effects of salmeterol are more likely to occur with higher doses, which lead to approximately proportionally increased blood concentrations.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0772
Title:Lung deposition of BDP/formoterol HFA pMDI in healthy volunteers, asthmatic, and COPD patients
Authors:W. De BackerA. DevolderG. PoliD. AcerbiR. MonnoC. HerpichK. SommererT. MeyerF. Mariotti
Absract:Background: When inhaling medication, it is essential that drug particles are delivered to all sites of lung inflammation, including the peripheral airways. The aim of this study was to assess the lung deposition and lung distribution of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP)/formoterol (100/6 μg), both dissolved in hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) and delivered by pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) in healthy subjects, asthmatic, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients, to investigate how the in vitro characteristics of the formulation translate into the in vivo performance in diseases with different airway obstruction. Methods: Healthy volunteers (n=8), persistent asthmatics (n=8), and patients with stable COPD (n=8) completed this open-label, single-dose parallel-group study. Each patient received one single treatment of four puffs of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labeled BDP/formoterol formulation. The correlation between particle size distribution of radioactivity and of the drugs in the radiolabeled formulation was validated. Intra- and extrapulmonary deposition, amount of exhaled drug, and the central to peripheral ratio (C/P) were calculated immediately after inhalation. Patients' lung function and pharmacokinetic parameters were also assessed up to 24h post-dose. Results: The average lung deposition of BDP/formoterol was 34.08 ± 9.30% (relative to nominal dose) in healthy subjects, 30.86 ± 8.89% in asthmatics, and 33.10 ± 8.90% in COPD patients. Extrathoracic deposition was 53.48% ± 8.95, 57.64% ± 9.92 and 54.98% ± 7.01, respectively. C/P ratios of 1.42 ± 0.32 in healthy subjects, 1.96 ± 0.43 in asthmatics, and 1.94 ± 0.69 for COPD patients confirmed drug distribution to all regions of the lungs. Forced expiratory volume in 1sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) increased in all groups after BDP/formoterol inhalation, but was more evident in the patient groups. No significant correlation between baseline lung function and drug deposition was observed. Formoterol, BDP, and beclomethasone 17 monopropionate (B17MP) plasma profiles were comparable between groups. Conclusion: Inhalation of BDP/formoterol HFA (100/6 μg) produces high and homogeneous deposition of BDP and formoterol in the airways, regardless of pathophysiological condition. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2000.0919
Title:Salbutamol via easyhaler® is at least as effective as salbutamol via turbuhaler® in the treatment of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction
Authors:O. ZetterströmS. LähelmäJ. Keski-KarhuM. SilvastiE. Östling-KullingA. Ahonen
Absract:The aim of this study was to compare the clinical efficacy and acceptability of salbutamol inhaled via Easyhaler® and Turbuhaler® multi-dose dry powder inhalers in the treatment of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction. Thirty-two adult patients with asthma and/or bronchial hyper-reactivity were included in the study, which was carried out according to a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, cross-over design. Histamine challenge test was performed on 2 study days separated by at least 7 days. The challenge test was continued until a ≥ 20% fall in forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) was achieved. The patients then inhaled a single 100μg dose of salbutamol from Easyhaler®, or from Turbuhaler®. FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was assessed by flow-volume spirometry before and after histamine challenge and 1·5, 3, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30 and 60 min after salbutamol inhalation. The primary efficacy variable was the maximum percentage change in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end from the post-challenge value. The secondary efficacy variable was area under the curve (AUC) of FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end. At the end of the study, acceptability of salbutamol Easyhaler® was evaluated using a questionnaire and Easyhaler® was also compared with the inhalation device the patient had used earlier. Twenty-six patients completed the study. Both salbutamol Easyhaler® and salbutamol Turbuhaler® produced a rapid and significant increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end with maximum percentage changes being 43.9% (±15.3) and 40.5% (±21.9) from the post-challenge value, respectively. There were no significant differences between the two inhalation devices in terms of changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end or AUC of FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end. The use of Easyhaler® and getting a new dose from Easyhaler® was considered to be very easy by 65% and easy by 35% of the patients. None considered it difficult. Of 16 patients who had used Turbuhaler® earlier, 19% considered Easyhaler® much better, 44% better, and 38% the same as Turbuhaler®, and none considered it worse. In conclusion, the results show that salbutamol Easyhaler® was at least as effective as salbutamol Turbuhaler® in the treatment of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction. In addition, the patients considered Easyhaler® very easy or easy to use. The majority of patients who reported Turbuhaler® as their own inhaler considered Easyhaler® better or much better than Turbuhaler®.

pui:33029359
Title:Prednisolone oral solution better tolerated and more efficacious than prednisolone powder for the treatment of acute severe asthma in children
Authors:M.E. Lucas-BouwmanR.J. RoordaF.G.A. JansmanP.L.P. Brand
Absract:Objective. To compare the tolerability and clinical efficacy of prednisolone oral solution and prednisolone powder for the treatment of acute severe asthma in children. Design. Randomized controlled clinical trial. Method. In the period August 1998 to November 1999, at the outpatients' clinic and paediatric ward of the Isala teaching hospital (Zwolle, the Netherlands), 78 children (48 male) aged 3 months to 7 years, with acute severe asthma were treated with prednisolone I mg/kg twice daily. This was given as either an oral solution or a powder for 5 days, with bronchodilators per inhalation if necessary. Withdrawal from the study due to repeated vomiting of the study medication was registered. In a diary the parents recorded the severity of the dyspnoea and the taste of the prednisolone formulation using a visual analogue scale (VAS). At the start of the study the child's clinical condition was determined; after 6-8 days an assessment was carried out by a paediatric pulmonologist who did not know in which form the prednisolone had been administered. Results. Nine patients (23%) withdrew from the powder group because of repeated vomiting on the first study day, compared to 0% in the oral solution group (p = 0.00). Taste VAS scores were significantly better for prednisolone oral solution than for powder (95% CI for difference 2.0-5.1; p < 0.001 Differences in dyspnoea VAS scores between the study groups were not significant. The majority of patients (43/64; 67%) improved promptly during prednisolone therapy, and dyspnoea VAS scores returned to zero after 3-7 days. Eleven patients (17%) showed temporary worsening of dyspnoea during prednisolone therapy, and 10 patients (16%) showed a prolonged clinical course with slow decrease of dyspnoea. At the follow-up after 6-8 days, 18/29 patients (62%) from the powder group had recovered completely, compared to 29/35 patients (83%) from the oral solution group (p = 0.06). Conclusion. In children with acute severe asthma, prednisolone oral solution was better tolerated than and at least as effective as prednisolone powder. Irrespective of the drug formulation, approximately one third of the children with acute severe asthma responded slowly or poorly to prednisolone therapy.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2017.11.010
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery to older people
Authors:M. WallinT. TagamiL. ChenM. YangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Pulmonary diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), are common in older people. Treatment principles are well established in this group of patients; however, inadequate training and improper inhaler techniques often results in poor treatment outcomes. Healthcare professionals often do not have the required knowledge about the most common inhaler devices. Age-related conditions like cognitive ability and physical strength would also impact on the inhaler usage. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics may be affected by physiological changes, like impaired renal and hepatic functions and reduced lung functions. Adjusting and optimizing the inhaler device to the patient preferences, improvement of the drug formulation and inhalers, and using different adherence strategies might improve the treatment outcomes in elderly patients.

doi:10.1152/ajplung.00266.2020
Title:Inhaled vitamin A is more effective than intramuscular dosing in mitigating hyperoxia-induced lung injury in a neonatal rat model of bronchopulmonary dysplasia
Authors:C.A. GelfandR. SakuraiY. WangY. LiuR. SegalV.K. Rehan
Absract:Prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in premature-birth babies continues to be an unmet medical need. Intramuscular vitamin A is currently employed in preterm neonates to prevent BPD but requires intramuscular injections in fragile neonates. We hypothesized that noninvasive inhaled delivery of vitamin A, targeted to lung, would be a more effective and tolerable strategy. We employed our well-established hyperoxia-injury neonatal rat model, exposing newborn rats to 7 days of constant extreme (95% O@sub_begin2@sub_end) hyperoxia, comparing vitamin A dosed every 48 h via either aerosol inhalation or intramuscular injection with normoxic untreated healthy animals and vehicle-inhalation hyperoxia groups as positive and negative controls, respectively. Separately, similar vitamin A dosing of normoxia-dwelling animals was performed. Analyses after day 7 included characterization of alveolar histomorphology and protein biomarkers of alveolar maturation [surfactant protein C (SPC), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) γ, choline-phosphate cytidylyl transferase, vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptor, FLK-1, and retinoid X receptors (RXR-α, -β, and -γ], apoptosis (Bcl2 and Bax) key injury repair pathway data including protein markers (ALK-5 and β-catenin) and neutrophil infiltration, and serum vitamin A levels. Compared with intramuscular dosing, inhaled vitamin A significantly enhanced biomarkers of alveolar maturation, mitigated hyperoxia-induced lung damage, and enhanced surfactant protein levels, suggesting that it may be more efficacious in preventing BPD in extremely premature infants than the traditionally used IM dosing regimen. We speculate lung-targeted inhaled vitamin A may also be an effective therapy against other lung damaging conditions leading to BPD or, more generally, to acute lung injury.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2010.11.004
Title:Challenges in inhaled product development and opportunities for open innovation
Authors:B. ForbesB. AsgharianL.A. DaileyD. FergusonP. GerdeM. GumbletonL. GustavssonC. HardyD. HassallR. JonesR. LockJ. MaasT. McGovernG.R. PitcairnG. SomersR.K. Wolff
Absract:Dosimetry, safety and the efficacy of drugs in the lungs are critical factors in the development of inhaled medicines. This article considers the challenges in each of these areas with reference to current industry practices for developing inhaled products, and suggests collaborative scientific approaches to address these challenges. The portfolio of molecules requiring delivery by inhalation has expanded rapidly to include novel drugs for lung disease, combination therapies, biopharmaceuticals and candidates for systemic delivery via the lung. For these drugs to be developed as inhaled medicines, a better understanding of their fate in the lungs and how this might be modified is required. Harmonised approaches based on 'best practice' are advocated for dosimetry and safety studies; this would provide coherent data to help product developers and regulatory agencies differentiate new inhaled drug products. To date, there are limited reports describing full temporal relationships between pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) measurements. A better understanding of pulmonary PK and PK/PD relationships would help mitigate the risk of not engaging successfully or persistently with the drug target as well as identifying the potential for drug accumulation in the lung or excessive systemic exposure. Recommendations are made for (i) better industry-academia-regulatory co-operation, (ii) sharing of pre-competitive data, and (iii) open innovation through collaborative research in key topics such as lung deposition, drug solubility and dissolution in lung fluid, adaptive responses in safety studies, biomarker development and validation, the role of transporters in pulmonary drug disposition, target localisation within the lung and the determinants of local efficacy following inhaled drug administration. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1089/152091502320798312
Title:Variability of insulin absorption and insulin action
Authors:L. Heinemann
Absract:Subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of identical insulin doses may lead to considerable intra- and inter-individual differences in the current metabolic control of patients with diabetes mellitus. This well-known variability of the metabolic effect of insulin hampers practical insulin therapy considerably. The aim of this review is to summarize the knowledge about this topic, with a special focus on the variability of insulin action after pulmonary administration of insulin. A number of studies have been published describing the variability of insulin absorption from the s.c. depot. Only in a few published studies has the variability of insulin action after s.c. administration been quantified. Under controlled experimental conditions s.c. injections of regular insulins result in an intra-individual coefficient of variation (CV) of 15-25% of certain pharmacodynamic summary measures-which characterize the metabolic effect of the applied insulin-in healthy subjects. The inter-individual variability was approximately 10% higher than the intra-individual variability. Subcutaneously injected intermediate- and long-acting insulin preparations were described to have an even greater variability (>50%) than subcutaneously injected regular insulin. However, in a glucose clamp study s.c. application of NPH insulin led to an intra-individual CV in the range of 12-45% in healthy subjects. The reason for this discrepancy might be that the NPH insulin suspension was sufficiently shaken prior to drawing up the dose. Compared with conventional insulin formulations, rapid- and long-acting insulin analogues appear to have a similar variability, which means that, unfortunately, no considerable advantages in terms of variability were achieved by the invention of these novel insulin preparations. There are no appropriate studies available investigating the variability of the metabolic effect after s.c. insulin administration in patients with diabetes. The inhalation of insulin is a novel form of insulin administration that is currently under clinical development. The variability of the metabolic effect induced by the inhalation of insulin has up to now only been investigated in a small number of (published) studies. In a glucose-clamp study with healthy subjects the inhalation of an identical insulin dose on three study days led to an intra-individual variability that was comparable to that after s.c. injection of regular insulin. In a dose-response study with patients with type 1 diabetes the intra-individual CV was 34% for the area under the curve of the glucose infusion rate for 0-10 h. Studies with patients with type 2 diabetes have shown that the intra-individual CVs were within the range seen after s.c. insulin administration or even lower. In summary, the intra-individual variability of the metabolic effect observed after insulin application, be it subcutaneously injected or be it inhaled, is considerable and, therefore, hampers practical diabetes therapy. To date no means have been found that could lead to a clinically relevant reduction in the variable metabolic effect.

pui:365451699
Title:Nanoparticles: A novel pulmonary drug delivery system for tuberculosis
Authors:N. JawaharG. Reddy
Absract:Tuberculosis or TB is a common and in many cases lethal infectious disease caused by various strains of mycobacteria. This article mainly focuses on the development of Nano particle systems and methods for delivering anti-tubercular drugs directly to the lungs via the respiratory route. The main advantages of inhaled drug delivery include direct drug delivery to the diseased organ, targeting to alveolar macrophages, reduced risk of systemic toxicity and improved patient compliance. Researchers have demonstrated the possibility of various drug delivery systems using lipids, polymers and proteins to serve as inhalable anti-tubercular drug carriers. In recent years, encapsulation of antimicrobial drugs in Nano particle systems has emerged as an innovative and promising alternative that enhances therapeutic effectiveness and minimizes undesirable side effects of the drugs. Beginning with the respiratory delivery of a single anti-tubercular drug, it is now possible to deliver multiple drugs simultaneously with a greater therapeutic efficacy. Several key issues such as patient education, cost of treatment, stability and large scale production of drug formulations, etc. need to be addressed before anti-tubercular inhaled therapy finds its way from theory to clinical reality.

pui:40942661
Title:Calorimetric study on amorphous lactose during and after re-crystallization at different relative humidity
Authors:H. SteckelN. Bolzen
Absract:α-Lactose monohydrate is the carrier of choice for dry powder inhaler formulations but problems during dry powder inhalation development occur, mainly due to differences in the surface texture and surface energy of lactose received from different sources, but also due to batch-to-batch variability. It was the aim of this study to investigate the influence of the relative humidity during re-crystallization and the amount of amorphous material present on the physical form of the re-crystallized lactose. Spray-dried lactose and conditioned α-lactose monohydrate are used as reference materials for completely amorphous and fully crystalline lactose. Blends of these lactose qualities were recrystallized in an isothermal microcalorimeter at different relative humidity (RH) and subsequently analysed by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). It was found that the relative humidity during re-crystallization influences the physical form of the re-crystallized lactose. Re-crystallization at 100% RH led to the formation of α-lactose monohydrate whereas re-crystallization at lower RH led to an increasing amount of β-lactose. In addition, it could be shown that the content of amorphous lactose in a powder blend at fixed RH also influences the re-crystallization result. The higher the amorphous content was the more β-lactose was formed. © ECV · Editio Cantor Verlag.

doi:10.3109/10915819509008694
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of Diisopropylamine
Authors:F.A. Andersen
Absract:Diisopropylamine is a strongly alkaline, aliphatic amine used to adjust the pH of cosmetic formulations. In 1993, it was reported to be used in only one formulation. In acute and short-term inhalation studies, toxic effects were observed in the respiratory system and eyes of rats and guinea pigs. Dermal application of diluted and undiluted Diisopropylamine in rats and guinea pigs showed irritation but not sensitization. This ingredient is considered an ocular irritant. Mixed results were obtained in evaluating the mutagenicity of this ingredient by the Ames test, but there were negative results in the rat hepatocyte primary culture/DNA repair assay. Occupational exposure to Diisopropylamine vapor (5-10 min, two or three times per day, mean concentration 0.1-0.2 mg/l) was associated with dimness of vision, nausea, and headaches. Because the skin irritation results were interpreted as attributable to the alkaline pH of this ingredient, and it is recognized that it is likely neutralized in cosmetic formulations, the irritation potential in actual use was not a concern. In the presence of N-nitrosating agents, Diisopropylamine has the potential to form nitrosamines. Based on the data presented in this report, it is concluded that Diisopropylamine is safe as a cosmetic ingredient in the present practices of use, except it should not be used in products containing N-nitrosating agents.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics10040263
Title:A comprehensive map of FDA-approved pharmaceutical products
Authors:H. ZhongG. ChanY. HuH. HuD. Ouyang
Absract:With the increasing research and development (R&D) difficulty of new molecular entities (NMEs), novel drug delivery systems (DDSs) are attracting widespread attention. This review investigated the current distribution of Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved pharmaceutical products and evaluated the technical barrier for the entry of generic drugs and highlighted the success and failure of advanced drug delivery systems. According to the ratio of generic to new drugs and the four-quadrant classification scheme for evaluating the commercialization potential of DDSs, the results showed that the traditional dosage forms (e.g., conventional tablets, capsules and injections) with a lower technology barrier were easier to reproduce, while advanced drug delivery systems (e.g., inhalations and nanomedicines) with highly technical barriers had less competition and greater market potential. Our study provides a comprehensive insight into FDA-approved products and deep analysis of the technical barriers for advanced drug delivery systems. In the future, the R&D of new molecular entities may combine advanced delivery technologies to make drug candidates into more therapeutically effective formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.08.007
Title:Mathematical approach for understanding deagglomeration behaviour of drug powder in formulations with coarse carrier
Authors:I. ParisiniJ.L. CollettD. Murnane
Absract:Deagglomeration of cohesive particles in combination with coarse carrier is a key requirement for inhaled formulations. The aim of the project was to propose a mathematical approach to understand aerosolization behaviour of micronized particles alone and in formulation with carriers. Salbutamol sulphate and salmeterol xinafoate were blended separately with fine lactose (ratio 1:4) and fine and coarse lactose (1:4:63.5). Laser diffraction was employed to characterize the powder median particle size. The deagglomeration of micronized materials followed an asymptotic monoexponential relationship. When the coarse lactose was added, the relationship fitted a bi-exponential equation showing an easily and a poorly dispersed fraction. Using model hydrophobic and hydrophilic APIs, this study has demonstrated the utility of an analytical approach that can parameterize deagglomeration behaviour of carrier-free and carrier-based inhalation formulations. The analytical approach provides the ability to systematically study the effect of material, formulation and processing factors on deagglomeration behaviour.

doi:10.1002/jps.23508
Title:Physicochemical aspects of the coformulation of colistin and azithromycin using liposomes for combination antibiotic therapies
Authors:S.J. WallaceR.L. NationJ. LiB.J. Boyd
Absract:Remote loading of azithromycin into liposomes, and subsequent release behavior in the presence of colistin, has been investigated with a view to understand the potential of liposomes to enable the coformulation of these two antibiotics for application in inhalation therapy. Azithromycin was successfully encapsulated into liposomes by remote loading (encapsulation efficiency > 98%). Slow release of azithromycin was achieved in the presence of cholesterol in a concentration-dependent manner, with a 4:1 mol ratio of phospholipid-cholesterol releasing 22% azithromycin in 24 h, whereas a 2:1 mol ratio released only 4.9% of azithromycin in 24 h. Addition of colistin to the formulation with increasing concentration did not change the loading behavior, but accelerated drug release, increasing the percentage of released azithromycin from 4.9% to 30% over 24 h. The permeabilizing ability of colistin on liposomes is consistent with its permeabilizing effect on bacterial cells. This behavior opens opportunities to tailor the release rate of drugs coformulated with colistin using liposomes as the carrier. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

pui:368491179
Title:Approaches to pulmonary drug delivery systems
Authors:P. TangriS. Khurana
Absract:Pulmonary route have been used to treat various respiratory diseases for centuries. Ancient inhalation therapies included the use of leaves from plants, vapors from aromatic plants, balsams, and myrrh. The pulmonary route has gained increasing importance in the recent times due to its unique properties such as a large absorptive area of up to 100m2; extremely thin 0.1 μm - 0.2 μm absorptive mucosal membrane and good blood supply. New dispersible formulations and drug aerosol delivery devices for inhalable peptides, proteins and various small molecules have, in the past decade, become of increasing interest for the treatment of systemic and respiratory diseases. This review enlightens the concept of pulmonary drug delivery and the recent advances in the field.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.02.022
Title:The effects of high shear blending on α-lactose monohydrate
Authors:R.H. BridsonP.T. RobbinsY. ChenD. WestermanC.R. GillhamT.C. RocheJ.P.K. Seville
Absract:α-Lactose monohydrate is an important pharmaceutical excipient used extensively in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. The ways in which a high shear blending process affect this material have been investigated and important process parameters have been identified. Total energy input (kJ/kg), blade design and the conditions in which lactose was stored prior to blending were found to have the most significant effect on the apparent particle size distribution of the processed material, which may subsequently affect the performance of DPI formulations. The power conditions used during blending, equipment temperature and humidity of the headspace above the powder were found to be less important in this respect. Additionally, it was found that high energy blending could induce changes in the water sorption characteristics of the material, although the formation of amorphous material could not be confirmed. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:40315904
Title:Medical problems: Brief reviews - Pain
Authors:M.J. Katz
Absract:α-Lactose monohydrate is an important pharmaceutical excipient used extensively in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. The ways in which a high shear blending process affect this material have been investigated and important process parameters have been identified. Total energy input (kJ/kg), blade design and the conditions in which lactose was stored prior to blending were found to have the most significant effect on the apparent particle size distribution of the processed material, which may subsequently affect the performance of DPI formulations. The power conditions used during blending, equipment temperature and humidity of the headspace above the powder were found to be less important in this respect. Additionally, it was found that high energy blending could induce changes in the water sorption characteristics of the material, although the formation of amorphous material could not be confirmed. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:27173295
Title:Issues about inhalation reformulation after removing CFCs
Authors:J.-M. Aiache
Absract:The application of the Montreal convention which not only plans to remove CFCs from pressurized preparations but to stop also the production, will affect companies. However, for pharmaceutical use, antiasthmatic drugs are considered as essential and at the moment the use of CFCs is allowed. But if the production stops, a reformulation will be necessary. Three solutions are conceivable: The first one is to replace CFC 11, 12 and 114 with the old well known propellants as butane, isobutane, propane but they are not very compatible with pulmonary use. The second one is the use of new official substitutes as 134a (tetrafluorethane) or R227 (heptafluoropropane). The former is immediately available and can be used because its lack of toxicity has been demonstrate by an international consortium, IPACT as well as the absence of action on ozone but a light 'greenhouse effect' is expected. However, the simple substitution of CFCs for those two propellants is not easy due to their physical-chemical proprieties which are different from the old CFCs. This reformulation is so delicate that pharmaceutical companies have chosen a third solution: precompression pumps or clever devices which can deliver directly the pure drug in powder form. The other preparations to be used for dermatological or cosmetological uses have been reformulated since a long time with original and special presentation (bags in can or volatile solvents).

doi:10.1089/jamp.2013.1090
Title:Manufacturing and device options for the delivery of biotherapeutics
Authors:S. HoeM.A. BoraeyJ.W. IveyW.H. FinlayR. Vehring
Absract:Biotherapeutic aerosol formulations are an intense area of interest for systemic and local drug delivery. This article provides a short overview of typical factors required specifically for biotherapeutic aerosol formulation design, the processing options open for consideration, and the issue of inhalation device selection. Focusing on spray drying, four case studies are used to highlight the relevant issues, describing investigations into: (1) the mechanical stresses occurring in bacteriophage formulations during spray-dryer atomization; (2) modeling of the spray-dryer process and droplet drying kinetics, to assist process design and predictions of formulation stability; (3) a predictive approach to the design and processing of a five-component dry powder aerosol formulation; and (4) the survival of bacteriophages after pressurized metered dose inhaler atomization.

doi:10.1097/ACO.0b013e3283079b82
Title:Update on pharmacology of hypnotic drugs
Authors:F.S. Servin
Absract:PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review is intended to provide an update on pharmacology of hypnotic drugs and current state of published research for new or improved agents. RECENT FINDINGS: Albeit no completely new drugs have been launched in the last few years, research on pharmacology of existing drugs is still ongoing, and new formulations of existing drugs are proposed (propofol, isoflurane). Xenon, an old but so far unavailable drug, has elicited new interests and this review will examine the recent publications on this fascinating agent. SUMMARY: These results will improve our handling of existing drugs and open new perspectives on drug monitoring through measurement of propofol concentrations in expired air. © 2008 Wolters Kluwer Health | Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.

doi:10.1007/164_2016_67
Title:Drug Delivery Devices for Inhaled Medicines
Authors:A. LexmondB. Forbes
Absract:Historically, the inhaled route has been used for the delivery of locally-acting drugs for the treatment of respiratory conditions, such as asthma, COPD, and airway infections. Targeted delivery of substances to the lungs has some key advantages over systemic administration, including a more rapid onset of action, an increased therapeutic effect, and, depending on the agent inhaled, reduced systemic side effects since the required local concentration in the lungs can be obtained with a lower dose. Fortunately, when designed properly, inhaled drug delivery devices can be very effective and safe for getting active agents directly to their site of action.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_17
Title:In vitro performance testing for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:Y.-J. SonJ.P. MitchellJ.T. McConville
Absract:This chapter provides a detailed review of in vitro testing methods for inhalation products. Specifically, the current compendial methods for pulmonary drug delivery are presented, discussion of cascade impactor use and simplification, determination of aerosol electrostatics, static characterization of particles and powders, solubility screening, and a review of research leading to improved dissolution studies for these products. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

pui:24277026
Title:Generation of aerosolized drugs
Authors:R.K. WolffR.W. Niven
Absract:The expanding use of inhalation therapy has placed demands on current aerosol generation systems that are difficult to meet with current inhalers. The desire to deliver novel drug entities such as proteins and peptides, as well as complex formulations including liposomes and microspheres, requires delivery systems of improved efficiency that will target the lung in a reproducible manner. These efforts have also been spurred by the phase out of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and this has included a directed search for alternative propellants. Consequently, a variety of new aerosol devices and methods of generating aerosols are being studied. This includes the use of freon replacement propellants, dry powder generation systems, aqueous unit spray systems and microprocessor controlled technologies. Each approach has advantages and disadvantages depending upon each principle of action and set of design variables. In addition, specific drugs may be better suited for one type of inhaler device vs. another. The extent to which aerosol generation systems achieve their goals is discussed together with a summary of selected papers presented at the recent International Congress of Aerosols in Medicine.

pui:14222167
Title:Double-blind pretreatment of exercise-induced asthma with sequential inhalations of fenoterol from an aerosol and as a powder (second of two parts)
Authors:A. BundgaardA. Schmidt
Absract:Eighteen adult asthmatics participated in a placebo controlled, double-blind, randomised study comparing the efficacy of pretreatment with fenoterol administered by pressurized aerosol and as a dry powder on exercise-induced asthma. The dosages used were 0.6 mg and 1.0 mg as both pressurized aerosol and dry powder. The pretreatment was given over a period of 10 min. Six min of treadmill-running was performed in a climate chamber 30 min after pretreatment on five successive days. The lung function was assessed by peak expiratory rate. The decrease in lung function following pretreatment with placebo was 32% (average ± (SEM) (2). Falls of 9% (2) and 8% (1) were seen after pretreatment with 0.6 and 1.0 mg from a pressurized aerosol. The falls following pretreatment with 0.6 and 1.0 mg of dry powder were 8% (2) and 8%, respectively. It is concluded that pretreatment of exercise-induced asthma with a beta-2-agonist is equally effective whether dosed from a pressurized aerosol as when given as a dry powder. A dose of 0.6 mg is just effective as a dose of 1.0 mg when inhaled over a period of ten min.

pui:623767513
Title:Recent advances in the use of phospholipid excipients in local or injectable depot formulations
Authors:P. Van HoogevestP. Luciani
Absract:Several drugs have a short biological half-life and multiple administrations are needed to achieve a therapeutic effect. In addition, such drugs may not be suitable for oral administration because of degradation in the gastrointestinal tract and poor permeation through the gastrointestinal tract epithelium. Typical examples are high molecular weight proteins and peptides. For this sort of drugs, slow release (depot) injections or local depot formulations (e.g. via inhalation) would enable a more patient-friendly, low frequency therapy which reduces the risk for possible toxic plasma peak concentrations. In the past, sustained drug release has been successfully achieved over short time intervals by means of e.g. oily drug suspensions. Depot injectables based on biodegradable polymers like poly(lactid-co-glycolic)acid (PLGA) may enable drug release over an interval of up to several months. In order to design injectable depot formulations with intermediate drug release intervals or local depot formulations, lipid- and especially phospholipid-based formulations are nowadays investigated and developed. This article describes recent advances achieved with phospholipid-based formulations for systemic and local extended drug release.

doi:10.2217/nnm-2020-0192
Title:Properties of rapamycin solid lipid nanoparticles for lymphatic access through the lungs & part II: The effect of nanoparticle charge
Authors:E. LandhL.M. MoirD. TrainiP.M. YoungH.X. Ong
Absract:Aim: Lymphangioleiomyomatosis is characterized by smooth muscle-like cells in the lungs that spread to other organs via lymphatic vessels. Oral rapamycin is restricted by low bioavailability approximately 15%. The aim of the present study is to systematically investigate the effect of inhaled rapamycin solid lipid nanoparticles (Rapa-SLN) surface charge on efficacy and penetration into the lymphatics. Materials & methods: Rapa-SLN formulations with different charge: neutral, positive and negative, were produced and assessed for their physicochemical particle characteristics and efficacy in vitro. Results: Negative Rapa-SLNs were significantly faster at entering the lymphatic endothelium and more potent at inhibiting lymphanigiogenesis compared with neutral and positive Rapa-SLNs. Conclusion: Negative Rapa-SLNs showed efficient lymphatic access and should therefore be investigated further as a treatment for targeting extrapulmonary lymphangioleiomyomatosis.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.05.057
Title:From single excipients to dual excipient platforms in dry powder inhaler products
Authors:J. ShurR. PriceD. LewisP.M. YoungG. WoollamD. SinghS. Edge
Absract:Recent years have seen a marked diversification of excipient based formulation strategies used for the development and commercialisation of dry powder inhaler (DPI) products. These innovative approaches not only provide benefits to patients and health care professionals through the availability of a wider range of therapeutic DPI products, but, importantly, also allow formulators to exploit the potential opportunities that excipients provide for the development of DPIs. Whilst many DPI products have, and continue to be developed using a single formulation excipient, the commercialisation of DPI products which contain the two excipients lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate, namely the ‘dual excipient platform’ has recently been achieved. This article provides an overview of the background and current status of the development of such ‘dual excipient platform’ based DPI products.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2007.02.011
Title:Adhesion forces in interactive mixtures for dry powder inhalers - Evaluation of a new measuring method
Authors:M. LohrmannM. KapplH.-J. ButtN.A. UrbanetzB.C. Lippold
Absract:Dry powder inhalers mostly contain carrier based formulations where micronized drug particles are adhered to coarse carrier particles. The performance of the dry powder inhaler depends on the inhaler device, the inhalation manoeuvre and the formulation. The most important factor influencing the behaviour of the formulation is the adhesion force acting between the active ingredient and the carrier particles, which can be measured using different methods, for example the centrifuge technique or atomic force microscopy. In this study the tensile strength method, usually applied to determine cohesion forces between powder particles of one material, is optimized for adhesion force measurements between powder particles of unlike materials. Adhesion force measurements between the carrier materials lactose or mannitol and the drug substance salbutamol sulphate using the tensile strength method and the atomic force microscopy show higher values with increasing relative humidity. Consequently, the fine particle fraction determined using the Next Generation Impactor decreases with increasing relative humidity as a result of the enhanced interparticle interactions. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.4155/tde-2000-0000
Title:Inhaled formulation and device selection: Bridging the gap between preclinical species and first-in-human studies
Authors:J.L. WylieA. HouseP.J. MauserS. SellersJ. TerebetskiZ. WangJ.D. Ehrick
Absract:The factors that influence inhaled first-in-human (FIH) device and formulation selection often differ significantly from the factors that have influenced the preceding preclinical experiments and inhalation toxicology work. In order to minimize the risk of delivery issues negatively impacting a respiratory pipeline program, the preclinical and FIH delivery systems must be considered holistically. This topic will be covered in more detail in this paper. Several examples will be presented that highlight how appropriate scientific strategy can help bridge the gap between delivering to preclinical species and human. Considerations for the FIH device selection (metered dose inhaler, dry powder inhaler and nebulizer) and formulation optimization for small molecules will be discussed in context with the preclinical delivery systems.

doi:10.1023/A:1016257504115
Title:A microcalorimetric investigation of the interaction of surfactants with crystalline and partially crystalline salbutamol sulphate in a model inhalation aerosol system
Authors:P.M. BlackettG. Buckton
Absract:Purpose: The purpose of the work is to study the adsorption of Oleic acid and Span 85 (materials frequently used in aerosols as surfactants) onto partially amorphous and essentially crystalline salbutamol sulphate, attempting to understand the behaviour of metered dose inhalers (MDIs) and observing whether there were any differences in adsorption behaviour and if this could be related to the surface properties of the powder. Methods: Isothermal titration microcalorimetry was the principal technique used to measure the adsorption behaviour of surfactants to salbutamol sulphate. A Malvern particle size analyzer was also employed to provide size data on the interactions between the surfactant and powder suspensions. Results. The calorimetric data revealed that surfactant adsorption to the crystalline micronised powder (78% RH and aged dry sample) produced significant exotherms, whereas adsorption to the partially amorphous micronised powder resulted in small heat responses. The differences in adsorption behaviour to the partially crystalline and crystalline surfaces resulted in changes in aggregation behaviour. Conclusions: The stability of MDIs varies depending on the water content, crystallinity and surface composition of the powder. The advantages of using isothermal titration microcalorimetry to evaluate this surface behaviour in such difficult systems was demonstrated.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2019.1553955
Title:Future of nanomedicines for treating respiratory diseases
Authors:R. Scherließ
Absract:Introduction: Nanoparticles are under discussion in drug delivery for more than 20 years now, but examples for nanoparticulate formulations in the treatment of respiratory diseases are rare and mostly limited to the administration of sub-micron drug particles (ultrafine particles). However, nanoparticles may also carry specific benefits for respiratory treatment. Are nanoparticles the next-generation drug carrier system to facilitate systemic delivery, sustained release and cancer treatment in the lungs? Areas covered: This review will look into the promises and opportunities of the use of nanoparticles in the treatment of respiratory diseases. Important aspects to discuss are the fate of nanoparticles in the lung and mechanisms for reproducible delivery of nanoparticulate formulations to the lungs. Examples are given where nanoparticles may be advantageous over for traditional formulations and further aspects to explore are mentioned. Expert opinion: The benefit of nanoparticulate systems for respiratory delivery adds to the portfolio of possible formulation strategies, depends on the intended functionality and needs more exploration. Advantages of such systems are only seen in special cases.

doi:10.1002/jps.23176
Title:Development of budesonide nanocluster dry powder aerosols: Formulation and stability
Authors:N. El-GendyS. HuangP. SelvamP. SoniC. Berkland
Absract:The physical and chemical stability of dry powder aerosol formulations is an essential component in the development of an inhaled therapeutic. The pharmaceutical processing methods and storage conditions are primary determinants of the stability of a dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation. Wet milling was used to produce budesonide NanoClusters (NCs), which are agglomerates of drug nanoparticles (∼300 nm) with a mean aerodynamic diameter between 1 and 3 μm, capable of deep lung penetration. In this study, the reproducibility of NC processing and performance was established. The physical stability of a selected budesonide NC formulation was investigated using industry standard dose content uniformity and cascade impaction techniques. The chemical stability of the lead formulation was also determined as a function of processing parameters and storage conditions. This study confirms the reproducibility and robust stability of NC powders as a novel means to turn drug particles into high-performance aerosols. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.1097/00063198-200304001-00005
Title:Drug delivery to the lungs from dry powder inhalers
Authors:S.P. Newman
Absract:When asthma is being treated, it is essential that sufficient drug is deposited at the site(s) where it is needed. In recent years, many dry powder inhalers have been developed by the pharmaceutical industry. Drug delivery to the lung from dry powder inhalers is dependent upon the patient's peak inhaled flow rate, and so it is very important to be able to assess the amount and location of drug delivered from different devices. Lung deposition has recently been assessed from a new dry powder inhaler, the Novolizer® (ASTA Medica, now VIATRIS GmbH & Co. KG, subsidiary Sofotec GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt, Germany), using gamma scintigraphy. It was shown that the Novolizer® deposited significantly more budesonide in the lungs than a Turbuhaler® used either at similar inspiratory flow rates or with similar inspiratory effort. Equivalent clinical efficacy and safety profiles have also been shown in asthmatic patients treated with budesonide from each device. © 2003 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Inc.

pui:30246940
Title:Clinical need for a nebulized
Authors:S.J. Szefler
Absract:Asthma is a leading cause of morbidity in children, leading to frequent emergency room visits and hospitalizations. In recent years, a steady increase in the number of cases of pediatric asthma has been observed. Mortality rates among children also have increased. The diagnosis of asthma in infants and young children relies on symptoms, and most children become symptomatic before the age of 2 years. The prognosis of an individual child is difficult to predict because of a lack of clear markers; however, respiratory symptoms that begin at, or persist through, the ages of 3 to 4 years are significantly associated with future asthma. The inflammatory nature of asthma has prompted recommendations for the routine use of inhaled corticosteroids for all patients with persistent asthma. Studies have indicated that early initiation of corticosteroid therapy can reduce airway inflammation and may prevent more serious asthma or irreversible obstruction in later years. Although treatment guidelines recommend the use of inhaled corticosteroids in infants and children younger than 5 years of age, metered- dose and dry-powder inhalers may be difficult for this population to use because of a lack of coordination or understanding. In addition, there are no commercially available inhaled corticosteroids for use in children younger than 4 years of age in the United States.

doi:10.1208/s12249-007-9004-x
Title:Study of the RESS process for producing beclomethasone-17,21-dipropionate particles suitable for pulmonary delivery
Authors:P.A. CharpentierM. JiaR.A. Lucky
Absract:The purpose of this research was to micronize beclomethasone-17,21-dipropionate (BDP), an anti-inflammatory inhaled corticosteroid commonly used to treat asthma, using the rapid expansion of supercritical solution (RESS) technique. The RESS technique was chosen for its ability to produce both micron particles of high purity for inhalation, and submicron/nano particles as a powder handling aid for use in next generation dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Particle formation experiments were carried out with a capillary RESS system to determine the effect of experimental conditions on the particle size distribution (PSD). The results indicated that the RESS process conditions strongly influenced the particle size and morphology; with the BDP mean particle size decreasing to sub-micron and nanometer dimensions. An increase in the following parameters, i.e. nozzle diameter, BDP mol fraction, system pressure, and system temperature; led to larger particle sizes. Aerodynamic diameters were estimated from the SEM data using three separate relations, which showed that the RESS technique is promising to produce particles suitable for pulmonary delivery. © American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists 2007.

doi:10.1136/thx.2006.065144
Title:Recommendations for the management of cough in adults
Authors:A.H. MoriceL. McGarveyI. Pavord
Absract:The purpose of this research was to micronize beclomethasone-17,21-dipropionate (BDP), an anti-inflammatory inhaled corticosteroid commonly used to treat asthma, using the rapid expansion of supercritical solution (RESS) technique. The RESS technique was chosen for its ability to produce both micron particles of high purity for inhalation, and submicron/nano particles as a powder handling aid for use in next generation dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Particle formation experiments were carried out with a capillary RESS system to determine the effect of experimental conditions on the particle size distribution (PSD). The results indicated that the RESS process conditions strongly influenced the particle size and morphology; with the BDP mean particle size decreasing to sub-micron and nanometer dimensions. An increase in the following parameters, i.e. nozzle diameter, BDP mol fraction, system pressure, and system temperature; led to larger particle sizes. Aerodynamic diameters were estimated from the SEM data using three separate relations, which showed that the RESS technique is promising to produce particles suitable for pulmonary delivery. © American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists 2007.

doi:10.1016/S0169-409X(97)00511-5
Title:A scintigraphic study to evaluate the deposition patterns of a novel anti-asthma drug inhaled from the cyclohaler dry powder inhaler
Authors:G.R. PitcairnG. HooperX. LuriaX. RiveroS.P. Newman
Absract:A scintigraphic study was performed, in 10 healthy volunteers, to determine the deposition patterns of a novel anti-asthma drug, LAS 31025, inhaled from a dry powder inhaler, the Cyclohaler. In addition, plasma concentrations of drug following inhalation were determined to investigate their relationship to the deposition patterns. Increasing doses of LAS 31025 were inhaled by the volunteers on four separate study days; 2.25, 4.5, 9.0 and 18.0 mg. The average lung deposition values corresponding to these dose levels were 19.1, 20.9, 19.5 and 17.5%, respectively. Deposition patterns within the lungs were similar on each of the four study days, with slightly more of the dose deposited in the central and intermediate regions compared to the peripheral lung region. The scintigraphic data were supported by the pharmacokinetic measurements as there was an increase in the maximum plasma concentration and area under the concentration-time curve corresponding to the increased doses of LAS 31025 on successive study days.

doi:10.1016/S0300-2896(11)70008-4
Title:Therapeutic approach to the distal airways in asthma
Authors:A. De Diego DamiáJ.M. Vega Chicote
Absract:Bronchial asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects both the large-caliber airways and the smaller-caliber bronchioles. In the last few years, a major therapeutic advance has been made with the development of new systems of inhalation solutions, which produce extra-fine particles, achieving better lung deposition throughout the airways and reducing oropharyngeal deposition. These formulations have improved the effectiveness of bronchodilation and particularly the antiinflammatory effect. The use of long-acting b2-adrenergic steroids in extra-fine formulation, whether alone or in combinations of fixed doses, improves drug distribution throughout the bronchial tree, enhancing the therapeutic effect with lower doses of drugs. Leukotriene receptor antagonists have shown their effect on the small airways in asthmatic patients, both in studies of pulmonary resistance and pulmonary volumes and in imaging studies. © 2011 Sociedad Española de Neumología y Cirugía Torácica.

doi:10.1300/J157v01n01_06
Title:Garlic: Its history and adverse effects
Authors:L. MorbidoniJ.M. ArterburnV. YoungD. MullinsC. MulrowV. Lawrence
Absract:Garlic is a popular herbal alternative therapy. Adverse effects of garlic that have been reported with oral ingestion, inhalation, and topical exposure include smelly breath, body odor, flatulence, esophageal and abdominal pain, small intestinal obstruction, contact dermatitis, rhinitis, asthma, bleeding, myocardial infarction, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylaxis, skin blisters, and ulcero-necrotic lesions. Causality of garlic for specific adverse effects is best established for smelly breath, body odor, and allergic reactions; data regarding other adverse effects are primarily based on case reports. The frequency of adverse effects of garlic and whether they vary by particular preparations are not established.

doi:10.2174/156720111794479880
Title:Aerosol delivery of antimicrobial agents during mechanical ventilation: Current practice and perspectives
Authors:A. MichalopoulosE.I. MetaxasM.E. Falagas
Absract:Critically ill patients, who develop ventilator-associated pneumonia during prolonged mechanical ventilation, often require antimicrobial agents administered through the endotracheal or the tracheotomy tube. The delivery of antibiotics via the respiratory tract has been established over the past years as an alternative route in order to deliver high concentrations of antimicrobial agents directly to the lungs and avoid systemic toxicity. Since the only formal indications for inhaled/aerosolized antimicrobial agents is for patients suffering from cystic fibrosis, consequently the majority of research and published studies concerns this group of patients. Newer devices and new antibiotic formulations are currently off-label used in ambulatory cystic fibrosis patients whereas similar data for the mechanically ventilated patients do not yet exist. © 2011 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

pui:358438818
Title:Basics of compounding: Considerations for implementing United States Pharmacopeia chapter 〈797〉 pharmaceutical compounding - Sterile preparations, Part 6: 2008 revisions to chapter 〈797〉
Authors:L.V. Allen Jr.C.C. Okeke
Absract:United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding - Sterile Preparations pertains to all preadministration manipulations and procedures involved in the preparation of sterile compounds for application, implantation, infusion, inhalation, injection, insertion, instillation, or irrigation, including preparation, storage, and transportation. The chapter does not pertain to actual clinical administration of compounded sterile preparations to patients. The intent of Chapter 〈797〉 is simply to prevent patient harm and fatalities that may result from nonsterility, excessive endotoxin load, large content errors in strength of correct ingredients, or the presence of incorrect ingredients. Because the achievement of sterility requires that facilities meet minimum cleanliness standards, that personnel be trained adequately and undergo periodic testing and training in sterilization techniques, and that appropriate principles and practices be applied to sustain solution stability, compliance with Chapter 〈797〉 should be the goal of any facility where sterile preparations are compounded. Many pharmacies have already achieved compliance with Chapter 〈797〉, and those that have already met the new standards seem to support them strongly. A number of significant changes have been made to Chapter 〈797〉, and this article discusses these changes.

doi:10.2165/00063030-199810020-00001
Title:Chlorofluorocarbon-free inhalation devices in asthma: Are there clinical implications?
Authors:R.E. RuffinA.M. Southcott
Absract:Alternative non-chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellants have been developed and have been shown to be safe alternatives to CFC propellants. Salbutamol (albuterol) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) in metered dose inhalers (MDIs) have been most studied. Salbutamol sulfate non-CFC MDIs have remained as a suspension formulation, and there is good evidence that salbutamol sulfate non-CFC MDIs are equivalent to salbutamol sulfate CFC MDIs. BDP non- CFC MDIs have a new formulation which is a solution and has a significantly smaller particle size than BDP delivered from CFC MDIs. This has resulted in more of the metered dose from the non-CFC MDI reaching the lower respiratory tract, with a consequent reduction of the dose deposited in the throat. This change allows a smaller dose of the non-CFC BDP to be equivalent to the CFC formulation. However, efficacy studies will be needed with other medications that are delivered in non-CFC MDIs because this finding with BDP relates to the solution formulation and particle size. The non-CFC propellant hydrofluoroalkane (HFA)-134a functions better at a lower temperature than its CFC comparator.

doi:10.1016/S1359-6446(04)03171-X
Title:Application of formulation technologies in lead candidate selection and optimization
Authors:M.V. Chaubal
Absract:Formulation development during early drug discovery and lead optimization, involves several challenges including limited drug supply, the need for rapid turnaround, and limited development time. It is also desirable to develop initial formulations that will be representative of final commercial formulations. Nanoparticles offer a unique platform for the formulation of poorly soluble drugs - such formulations can be injected (intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular), as well as administered through other routes, such as oral, ocular and inhalation. Thus, a single formulation can be used to test and eventually develop multiple dosage forms. Furthermore, nanoparticles offer the opportunity for high drug loading, for low potency compounds, and thus support toxicological evaluation of such compounds.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2018.1502267
Title:Carriers for the targeted delivery of aerosolized macromolecules for pulmonary pathologies
Authors:N. OsmanK. KanekoV. CariniI. Saleem
Absract:Introduction: Macromolecules with unique effects and potency are increasingly being considered for application in lung pathologies. Numerous delivery strategies for these macromolecules through the lung have been investigated to improve the targeting and overall efficacy. Areas covered: Targeting approaches from delivery devices, formulation strategies and specific targets are discussed. Expert opinion: Although macromolecules are a heterogeneous group of molecules, a number of strategies have been investigated at the macro, micro, and nanoscopic scale for the delivery of macromolecules to specific sites and cells of lung tissues. Targeted approaches are already in use at the macroscopic scale through inhalation devices and formulations, but targeting strategies at the micro and nanoscopic scale are still in the laboratory stage. The combination of controlling lung deposition and targeting after deposition, through a combination of targeting strategies could be the future direction for the treatment of lung pathologies through the pulmonary route.

doi:10.1254/fpj.122.265
Title:Pharmacological action and clinical aspects of salmeterol
Authors:K. Oguri
Absract:Previous systemic β@sub_begin2@sub_end agonists such as procatrol tablets and tulobuterol patch were developed in Japan to address nocturnal symptoms and maintenance of lung function in asthmatic patients. Salmeterol, a potent and highly selective in β@sub_begin2@sub_end adrenocepter agonist with a duration of action greater than 12 h, was developed to provide long duration of bronchodilation with binding to a non-active site in the β @sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenocepter. Salmeterol is administrated via dry power inhalation and clinical studies have showed it has a good efficacy and a good safety profile, similar to inhaled steroids. Indeed, many clinical studies showed that salmeterol demonstrated better efficacy than long-acting β @sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist oral bronchodilators, theophyllines, and leukotriene-receptor antagonists in asthmatic patients and anticholinergic agents and theophyllines in COPD patients. Salmeterol will provide clinical benefits for Japanese asthma and COPD patients.

doi:10.1016/0928-0987(94)00078-E
Title:Preparation and in vitro evaluation of tetrandrine-entrapped albumin microspheres as an inhaled drug delivery system
Authors:X.M. ZengG.P. MartinC. Marriott
Absract:Tetrandrine is a bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid extracted from the roots of Stephania tetrandra S. Moore. It has been used in China as a treatment of silicosis which is an occupational disease caused by the inhalation of silica particles. Tetrandrine is reported to be metabolised slowly, accumulate in the liver and induce hepatic damage. Hence, the aim of the present study is to deliver and retain tetrandrine in the lung so as to promote any antisilicotic effects but to minimise its side effects to other organs. Albumin microspheres (MS) may provide a suitable carrier for airway delivery because of their biocompatibility and biodegradability. The albumin MS were prepared with micronised tetrandrine by high speed homogenisation and heat denaturation. Factorial design was used to optimise the preparative process. The particle size was measured by laser light scattering and drug entrapment determined by HPLC. Albumin MS with mean diameter 4.41 ± 0.45 μm (n = 6) and drug entrapment 120.2 ± 26.2 μg drug per mg MS (n = 6) were prepared. The tetrandrine recovered from the lower stage of a twin-stage impinger operated under Pharmacopoeial conditions was 13.83 ± 2.58% (n = 6). The results showed that albumin MS may have the potential to deliver tetrandrine to the lung via airways.

pui:12149456
Title:Bioavailability of theophylline from three different tablets in asthmatic patients and their bronchodilating effects in combination with terbutaline inhalation
Authors:K. SvedmyrT. MellstrandN. Svedmyr
Absract:The bioavailability of three different theophylline tablets (microcrystallinic theophylline, Theolair®, Nuelin®, 3M Riker), choline theophyllinate as a new film-coated tablet (Teovent®, Ferrosan, Sweden) and theophyllaminopropanol (Oxyphylline®, Draco, Sweden) was investigated in eight adult asthmatics in a randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. Effects on ventilatory capacity (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and FVC), circulation (heart rate and blood pressure) and skeletal muscle tremor were followed. The theophylline concentration was determined by gas chromatography. Forty-five minutes after theophylline administration the plasma concentrations were almost the same for all four formulations. The bioavailability was also almost identical. The half-life for intravenous theophylline in these asthmatics was 7.4±0.64. The three tablet formulations had equal effect on FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and the effect was sustained throughout the 6-h period. Six hours after theophylline administration five terbutaline inhalations induced the same further increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end. The results indicate that theophylline alone has only a moderate acute bronchodilating effect at recommended plasma concentrations but gives a good effect when combined with inhalated β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenostimulants.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11070316
Title:Biological obstacles for identifying in vitro-in vivo correlations of orally inhaled formulations
Authors:E. Fröhlich
Absract:Oral inhalation of drugs is the classic therapy of obstructive lung diseases. In contrast to the oral route, the link between in vitro and in vivo findings is less well defined and predictive models and parameters for in vitro-in vivo correlations are missing. Frequently used in vitro models and problems in obtaining in vivo values to establish such models and to identify the action of formulations in vivo are discussed. It may be concluded that major obstacles to link in vitro parameters on in vivo action include lack of treatment adherence and incorrect use of inhalers by patients, variation in inhaler performance, changes by humidity, uncertainties about lung deposition, and difficulties to measure drug levels in epithelial lining fluid and tissue. Physiologically more relevant in vitro models, improvement in inhaler performance, and better techniques for in vivo measurements may help to better understand importance and interactions between individual in vitro parameters in pulmonary delivery.

doi:10.1161/circ.140.suppl_1.11102
Title:GB002, a novel inhaled PDGFR kinase inhibitor, demonstrates efficacy in the SU5416 Hypoxia rat model of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
Authors:A. GalkinB. DemonsE. GarciaJ. BrooksD. SleeL. Salter-CidL. Zisman
Absract:Introduction: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive disorder characterized by excessive smooth muscle cell proliferation, vascular remodeling, increased pulmonary arterial pressure, and right ventricular hypertrophy. The platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) signaling pathway is activated in human PAH and plays an important role in BMPR2 regulation. A nonselective PDGFR inhibitor imatinib demonstrated improved exercise capacity and hemodynamics in patients with advanced PAH; however, serious adverse events occurred due to systemic administration. Hypothesis: We hypothesized that localized lung delivery of GB002, a novel potent PDGFRa/ß inhibitor, would lead to beneficial vascular reverse remodeling and improved cardiopulmonary hemodynamics while limiting systemic exposure. Materials and Methods: We evaluated a dry powder formulation of GB002, delivered by inhalation, on disease progression in the SU5416 Hypoxia rat (SU5416/H) model of PAH. GB002 treatment was initiated after established PAH was confirmed by echocardiography post a single 20 mg/kg SUGEN injection, followed by 3-weeks of hypoxia and 2-weeks of normoxia. Statistical analysis was performed with one-way ANOVA. Significance was set at p<0.05. Data presented are mean +/-SEM. Results: Two-week treatment with GB002 significantly reduced right ventricular systolic pressure (Control PAH 85.2 ± 11 mmHg (n=7) vs GB002 46.7±3.9 mmHg (n=9), p<0.005) and mean pulmonary artery pressure (Control PAH 50.4 ± 5.4 mmHg (n=7) vs GB002 31.9±2.6 mmHg (n=9), p<0.005). Hemodynamic changes were accompanied by reduced pulmonary arteriole muscularization and restoration of BMPR2 protein expression in the lung lobes in GB002-treated animals. In parallel, decreased plasma levels of NT-proBNP and PDGF-B were observed, along with modulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines. GB002 was well tolerated. Conclusions: These data demonstrate that localized delivery of GB002 is efficacious on multiple measures of disease activity in the SU5416/H model. GB002 treatment is associated with disease remodeling including improved cardiopulmonary hemodynamics, reduced pulmonary arteriolar muscularization, restoration of BMPR2 signaling, reduced NT-proBNP and improved cytokines.

doi:10.2146/ajhp140540
Title:A second-generation inhaled insulin for diabetes mellitus
Authors:G. LedetR.A. GravesL.A. BostanianT.K. Mandal
Absract:Summary. Afrezza (also called Techno- sphere Insulin, MannKind Corporation, Valencia, CA) is a novel ultrarapid-acting insulin formulation indicated for use in improving glycemic control in selected patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus. Afrezza is not intended as a substitute for traditional basal therapy with injectable long-acting insulin but may be used to provide prandial insulin coverage; it must be used in combination with long-acting insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes. Administered before meals using a dry-powder inhalation device, Afrezza is formulated with a novel excipient (fumaryl diketopiperazine) that dissolves instantly in lung fluid and releases recombinant human insulin for absorption. In clinical trials, rates of hypoglycemia in Afrezza-treated patients were significantly lower than rates reported in comparator groups receiving injectable insulin products. The most commonly reported adverse effect of Afrezza is coughing, which tends to occur shortly after inhalation and is typically mild. Afrezza is not recommended for use in patients who smoke (or have recently stopped smoking) and those with a chronic lung disease such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Afrezza is not recommended for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis. Conclusion. Afrezza is a safe and effective treatment for selected adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes, potentially providing an alternative to injectable insulin for prandial blood glucose control.

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2019.PA1414
Title:Inhaled liposomal iloprost extend detectable plasma level and prolong reduction of hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension in rat
Authors:P. KanK.C. ChenY.F. Lin
Absract:Background: The iloprost inhalation product, Ventavis®, has a short plasma half-life (5-25 mins) and requires frequent dosing (6-9 times per day) for treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Aim: Liposome formulation is employed to provide sustained plasma concentration, which is also expected to prolong pharmacological effect. Methods: The liposomal iloprost solution was prepared and characterized in terms of assay and encapsulation efficiency. The test articles were administered by microsprayer for pharmacokinetic (PK) study in rats and pharmacodynamic (PD) study in hypoxia-induced PH rats. Blood samples over 12 hours post-dosing were taken and analyzed by LC-MS-MS. Pulmonary arterial pressure was recorded by implanted probe through the hypoxia experiment. Results: Liposomal iloprost solution extended a detectable plasma level up to 8 hours in rats, as compared to iloprost solution which disappeared in one hour. High drug encapsulation reduces a dumping phenomena caused by iloprost solution. In hypoxia-induced rat model the pulmonary arterial pressures were reduced and returned to baseline immediately by iloprost solution. However, the reduction was significantly prolonged by liposomal iloprost. Conclusion: A stable liposomal iloprost solution demonstrates an extended plasma level and sustained pharmacological effects.

doi:10.1007/978-3-319-42609-9_11
Title:Pharmaceutical cryogenic technologies
Authors:S.H. SurasarangR.O. Williams
Absract:Poor bioavailability associated with poorly water-soluble compounds remains a challenging issue in drug development. Particle engineering may be used to improve the physicochemical properties of poorly water-soluble compounds, thereby enhancing the bioavailability. Cryogenic technologies, including spray freeze drying (SFD), spray freezing into liquid (SFL), and thin film freezing (TFF), are “bottom-up” precipitation processes to generate amorphous nanostructured aggregates with significantly enlarged surface area, higher dissolution rates, and supersaturation, via rapidly inducing nucleation followed by particle growth arrest through stabilization via polymers and solidification of the solvent. This chapter provides detailed description of each cryogenic process, formulation guidelines, and characterization analyses. Finally, examples of cryogenically engineered drug compositions with improved in vitro and in vivo macroscopic performance are provided to illustrate the potential benefits of cryogenic technologies, especially TFF. The current authors would like to thank and acknowledge the significant contribution of the previous authors of this chapter from the first edition. This current second edition chapter is a revision and update of the original authors’ work.

doi:10.1016/j.apsb.2013.12.010
Title:An aerosol formulation of R-salbutamol sulfate for pulmonary inhalation
Authors:X. ZhangQ. LiuJ. HuL. XuW. Tan
Absract:An aerosol formulation containing 7.5. mg of R-salbutamol sulfate was developed. The aerosol was nebulized with an air-jet nebulizer, and further assessed according to the new European Medicines Agency (EMA) guidelines. A breath simulator was used for studies of delivery rate and total amount of the active ingredient at volume of 3. mL. A next generation impactor (NGI) with a cooler was used for analysis of the particle size and in vitro lung deposition rate of the active ingredient at 5. °C. The anti-asthmatic efficacy of the aerosol formulation was assessed in guinea pigs with asthma evoked by intravenous injection of histamine compared with racemic salbutamol. Our results show that this aerosol formulation of R-salbutamol sulfate met all the requirements of the new EMA guidelines for nebulizer. The efficacy of a half-dose of R-salbutamol equaled that of a normal dose of racemic salbutamol. © 2014 Chinese Pharmaceutical Association and Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences.

pui:23159814
Title:The lung deposition of salbutamol, directly labelled with technetium-99m, delivered by pressurised metered dose and dry powder inhalers
Authors:M.F. BiddiscombeR. MelchorV.H.F. MakR.J. MarriottA.J. TaylorM.D. ShortS.G. Spiro
Absract:A method is described for the radiolabelling of the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist, salbutamol, with the radionuclide @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc. The technique was used to prepare metered-dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers for inhalation by six normal subjects and the deposition of drug within the lungs was measured. In vitro data are presented from studies using an Andersen cascade impactor which show that salbutamol and @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc in the aerosol discharged by the metered dose inhaler, or drawn through the instrument from a dry powder inhaler, have a closely matched particle size distribution. Data from inhalers containing unlabelled salbutamol showed that the addition of the radiolabel had not significantly altered its distribution. Using a dual headed gamma camera (Siemens Rota Camera), we studied six normal volunteers and measured a mean (± SD) lung deposition of 11.3 (2.2)% of the dose discharged from a dry powder inhaler and 24.1 (8.5)% from the metered dose inhaler. The deposition values from the metered dose inhaler are considerably greater than those observed using indirect labelling techniques.

doi:10.1080/03639040802192814
Title:Factors affecting defining the quality and functionality of excipients used in the manufacture of dry powder inhaler products
Authors:S. EdgeS. MuellerR. PriceJ. Shur
Absract:The successful manufacture of a regulatory approved dry powder inhaler (DPI) product is only achievable by applying robust control systems to all aspects of analytical, engineering, and material based processes. Whilst many aspects of DPI drug product manufacturing can be adequately controlled, it is often the control of materials, that is, drug substance and excipients, which can lead to variation in the quality of the final drug product. This article gives an overview of DPI excipients and highlights the challenges of defining and, importantly, understanding the relationships between quality and functionality for excipient components in DPI formulations. Copyright © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2006.07.016
Title:Inhaled delivery of aerosolized cyclosporine
Authors:T.E. Corcoran
Absract:Aerosolized cyclosporine was the first calcineurin inhibitor to be developed for inhaled administration. Its use as a topical immunosuppressant after lung transplantation is reviewed. Animal studies in transplant and non-transplant models are considered, as is nebulized delivery of the drug, including the results of scintigraphy and pharmacokinetic studies. Open label clinical studies of the drug for the treatment of chronic and acute lung transplant rejection are detailed. Placebo controlled trials for rejection prophylaxis are described and future directions for the drug are considered. Aerosol cyclosporine provides an excellent example of how inhaled aerosol delivery can provide therapeutic concentrations of drug in the lungs while minimizing the side effects associated with high systemic concentrations. In the case of lung transplantation, the drug is delivered directly to the airways, the location of the pathology resulting in most mortality in this population (chronic allograft rejection), maximizing the efficacy of this dose-dependent immunosuppressant. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1152/ajplung.00260.2003
Title:Alveolar macrophages are a primary barrier to pulmonary absorption of macromolecules
Authors:C. LombryD.A. EdwardsV. PréatR. Vanbever
Absract:We demonstrate that a primary source of elimination of inhaled macromolecules after delivery to the lungs and before absorption into the systemic circulation owes to clearance by alveolar macrophages (AM). Depletion of AM by liposome-encapsulated dichloromethylene diphosphonate is shown to cause severalfold enhancement in systemic absorption of IgG and human chorionic gonadotropin after intratracheal instillation in rats. Lowering the doses of IgG delivered to the lungs alleviates local degradation and results in a dramatic increase in systemic absorption of the protein as well. Chemical and physical means of minimizing uptake of macromolecules by AM are proposed as novel methods for enhancing protein absorption from the lungs. Such strategies may have important ramifications on the development of inhalation as an attractive mode of administration of therapeutic proteins to the bloodstream.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.1996.tb05930.x
Title:The effect of surfactant and solid phase concentration on drug aggregates in model aerosol propellent suspensions
Authors:C. BowerC. WashingtonT.S. Purewal
Absract:The effect of increasing solid phase concentration on the morphology and flocculation rate of model aerosol suspensions has been investigated. Suspensions of micronized salbutamol sulphate and lactose in trichlorotrifluoroethane (P113) were studied under conditions of increasing shear stress. By use of image analysis techniques, measurement of aggregate size, fractal dimension and rate of aggregation was performed. The effect of the surfactant sorbitan monooleate on morphology and flocculation rate was also studied. Increased solid phase concentration caused an increase in the rate of aggregation and average aggregate size at a given value of shear stress. Surfactant addition retarded the aggregation rate, and caused a shift from a diffusion-limited cluster aggregation to a reaction-limited cluster aggregation mechanism. The aggregate profiles showed a corresponding change from rugged and crenellated without surfactant, to increasingly smooth and Euclidian with increasing surfactant concentration. The morphological changes were characterized by a decrease in the average boundary fractal dimension which also correlated well with the corresponding reduction in aggregation rate.

pui:366116797
Title:Optimum inspiratory conditions of targeting therapy of the upper airways for anti-influenza virus inhalers
Authors:H. TakanoY. KitazatoH. KusuzawaM. ItohH. MurayamaC. Shindoh
Absract:Anti-influenza virus inhalers formulated as a dry powder have been applied clinically in the treatment of seasonal influenza, which is one of the upper respiratory tract infections. In this study, the optimum respiratory conditions were examined together with the degrees of suitable drug delivery efficiency to the the local upper airways, because the degree of efficiency varied as functions of the particle size distributions of inhaled drugs and the respiratory conditions. Dry powder inhalers, such as zanamivir hydrate and laninamivir octanoate hydrate, were used in the experiments. From the experimental results in the measurement of the inhaled particle size distributions and the analysis of the degree of drug delivery efficiency, the optimum degree of respiratory effect based on the efficiency findings was adequately obtained in patients breathing normally in a sitting position.

doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.3001634
Title:Development of the first inhaled antibiotic for the treatment of cystic fibrosis
Authors:L.M. RoseR. Neale
Absract:Tobramycin Inhalation Solution USP (TOBI), a therapy developed to treat lung infections associated with cystic fibrosis (CF), was presented as a demonstration case for collaborative pharmaceutical development at a Clinical and Translational Science Awards Industry Forum on "Promoting Efficient and Effective Collaborations Among Academia, Government, and Industry" held in February 2010. TOBI was developed by PathoGenesis Corporation (Seattle, WA) in collaboration with the academic inventors, the National Institutes of Health, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the CF Foundation. The presenters, representing the academic, industry, and foundation partners, each reviewed the program from their perspectives and identified challenges that existed during the discovery, development, and commercialization of TOBI. The attendees were asked to consider other collaborative opportunities that might have further improved TOBI development, including the optimal roles of the academic researchers, foundations, and other agencies when industry drives development and commercialization decisions.

doi:10.1016/S0939-6411(97)00072-6
Title:Decrease of the stage-2 deposition in the twin impinger during storage of beclomethasone dipropionate dry powder inhalers in controlled and uncontrolled humidities
Authors:E.R.M. GeunsJ.S. TorenD.M. BarendsA. Bult
Absract:In this study, the respirable fraction of beclomethasone dipropionate in a dry powder formulation for inhalation was tested during storage in various humidity conditions. Samples of Becotide Rotacaps® were stored for 18 months in polypropylene containers at conditions of controlled relative humidities (RHs) (30.8, 56.7 and 72.1%) and uncontrolled humidity (range observed: 46.7 ± 7.0% RH). The temperature was not controlled. Both humidity and temperature were monitored regularly. The respirable fraction was tested after storage for 10 and 18 months with the impaction apparatus Twin Impinger, the deposition in stage 2 represents the respirable fraction. The results showed no significant decrease of the stage-2 deposition during storage at 30.8% RH. However, after storage at conditions of uncontrolled humidity and at conditions of 56.7 and 72.1% RH, a significant loss of the stage-2 deposition was observed. We conclude that the respirable fraction of the tested products decreases during storage at conditions of normal, uncontrolled humidity. The polypropylene container used for this study apparently did not provide adequate protection against the influence of uncontrolled humidity during the shelf life.

pui:24249354
Title:The distribution of an intranasal insulin formulation in healthy volunteers: Effect of different administration techniques
Authors:S.P. NewmanK.P. SteedJ.G. HardyI.R. WildingG. HooperR.A. Sparrow
Absract:The initial deposition pattern in the nasal passages and subsequent clearance of an insulin formulation labelled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-human serum albumin have been determined in 12 healthy male volunteers. Four different administration modes from a novel aqueous spray device were compared, involving delivered volumes of 80-160 μL, and with either gentle or vigorous inhalation while firing the device. The entire dose was deposited in the nasal cavity, and no significant radioactivity was deposited in the lungs. A mean 25-33% of the radiolabel remained in the nose after 4 h. A significantly smaller area of the nasal mucosa was covered by the smallest (80 μL) bolus, but subsequent clearance rates did not vary significantly with mode of administration. Blood glucose levels fell after administration of the insulin formulation, but no serious episodes of hypoglycaemia occurred.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2020.1730807
Title:Innovative preclinical models for pulmonary drug delivery research
Authors:S. EhrmannO. SchmidC. DarquenneB. Rothen-RutishauserJ. SznitmanL. YangH. BarosovaL. VecellioJ. MitchellN. Heuze-Vourc’h
Absract:Introduction: Pulmonary drug delivery is a complex field of research combining physics which drive aerosol transport and deposition and biology which underpins efficacy and toxicity of inhaled drugs. A myriad of preclinical methods, ranging from in-silico to in-vitro, ex–vivo and in-vivo, can be implemented. Areas covered: The present review covers in-silico mathematical and computational fluid dynamics modelization of aerosol deposition, cascade impactor technology to estimated drug delivery and deposition, advanced in-vitro cell culture methods and associated aerosol exposure, lung-on-chip technology, ex–vivo modeling, in-vivo inhaled drug delivery, lung imaging, and longitudinal pharmacokinetic analysis. Expert opinion: No single preclinical model can be advocated; all methods are fundamentally complementary and should be implemented based on benefits and drawbacks to answer specific scientific questions. The overall best scientific strategy depends, among others, on the product under investigations, inhalation device design, disease of interest, clinical patient population, previous knowledge. Preclinical testing is not to be separated from clinical evaluation, as small proof-of-concept clinical studies or conversely large-scale clinical big data may inform preclinical testing. The extend of expertise required for such translational research is unlikely to be found in one single laboratory calling for the setup of multinational large-scale research consortiums.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.09.045
Title:Using two-fluid nozzle for spray freeze drying to produce porous powder formulation of naked siRNA for inhalation
Authors:W. LiangM.Y.T. ChowS.F. ChowH.-K. ChanP.C.L. KwokJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Spray freeze drying is an attractive technology to produce powder formulation for inhalation. It can be used to generate large porous particles which tend to aerosolize efficiently and do not aggregate readily. It also avoids material to be exposed to elevated temperature. In this study, we reported the use of two-fluid nozzle to produce spray freeze dried powder of small interfering RNA (siRNA). The effect of atomization gas flow rate and liquid feed rate were inspected initially using herring sperm DNA (hsDNA) as nucleic acid model. The atomization gas flow rate was found to have a major impact on the aerosol properties. The higher the atomization gas flow rate, the smaller the particle size, the higher the fine particle fraction (FPF). In contrast, the liquid feed rate had very minor effect. Subsequently, spray freeze dried siRNA powder was produced at various atomization gas flow rates. The particles produced were highly porous as examined with the scanning electron microscopy, and the structural integrity of the siRNA was demonstrated with gel electrophoresis. The gene-silencing effect of the siRNA was also successfully preserved in vitro. The best performing siRNA formulation was prepared at the highest atomization gas flow rate investigated with a moderate FPF of 30%. However, this was significantly lower than that obtained with the corresponding hsDNA counterparts (FPF ∼57%). A direct comparison between the hsDNA and siRNA formulations revealed that the former exhibited a lower density, hence a smaller aerodynamic diameter despite similar geometric size.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2017.1310223
Title:Microparticles containing erlotinib-loaded solid lipid nanoparticles for treatment of non-small cell lung cancer
Authors:Z. BakhtiaryJ. BararA. AghanejadA.A. SaeiE. NematiJ. Ezzati Nazhad DolatabadiY. Omidi
Absract:Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with sensitizing mutations in the exons 18–21 of the epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene show increased kinase activity of EGFR. Hence, tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) such as erlotinib (ETB) have commonly been used as the second line therapeutic option for the treatment of metastatic NSCLC. While the ETB is available as an oral dosage form, the local delivery of this TKI to the diseased cells of the lung may ameliorate its therapeutic impacts. In the current study, we report on the development of ETB-loaded solid lipid nanoparticle (SLN) based formulation of dry powder inhaler (ETB-SLN DPI). ETB-SLNs were formulated using designated amount of compritol/poloxamer 407. The engineered ETB-SLNs showed sub-100 nm spherical shape with an encapsulation efficiency of 78.21%. MTT assay and DAPI staining revealed that the ETB-SLNs enhanced the cytotoxicity of cargo drug molecules in the human alveolar adenocarcinoma epithelial A549 cells as a model for NSCLC. To attain the ETB-SLN DPI, the ETB-SLNs were efficiently spray dried into microparticles (1–5 μm) along with mannitol. The ETB-SLN DPI powder displayed suitable flowability and aerodynamic traits. The Carr's Index, Hausner ratio and Next Generation Impactor (NGI) analyses confirmed deep inhalation pattern of the formulation. Based on these findings, we propose the ETB-SLN DPI as a promising treatment modality for the NSCLC patients.

doi:10.1093/jac/dkw517
Title:Efficacy and pharmacokinetics of ME1100, a novel optimized formulation of arbekacin for inhalation, compared with amikacin in a murine model of ventilator-associated pneumonia caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Authors:N. KakuY. MorinagaK. TakedaK. KosaiN. UnoH. HasegawaT. MiyazakiK. IzumikawaH. MukaeK. Yanagihara
Absract:Background: Arbekacin is an aminoglycoside that shows strong antimicrobial activity against Gram-positive bacteria, including MRSA, as well as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The therapeutic effectiveness of arbekacin is directly related to C@sub_beginmax@sub_end at the infection site. To maximize drug delivery to the respiratory tract and minimize the systemic toxicity, arbekacin optimized for inhalation, ME1100, is under development. In this study, we investigated the efficacy and pharmacokinetics of ME1100 in a murine model of ventilator-associated pneumonia caused by P. aeruginosa by using a customized investigational nebulizer system. Methods: The mice were treated for 5 min, once daily, with placebo, 3, 10 or 30 mg/mL ME1100 or 30 mg/mL amikacin. Results: In the survival study, the survival rate was significantly improved in the 10 and 30mg/mL ME1100 treatment groups compared with that in the placebo group. The number of bacteria in the lungswas significantly lower in the 30mg/mL ME1100 treatment group at 6 h after the initial treatment, compared with all other groups. In the pharmacokinetic study, the C@sub_beginmax@sub_end in the 30mg/mL ME1100 treatment group in the epithelial lining fluid (ELF) and plasma was 31.1 and 1.2 mg/L, respectively. Furthermore, we compared the efficacy of ME1100 with that of amikacin. Although there were no significant differences in ELF and plasma concentrations between 30 mg/mL of ME1100 and 30mg/mL of amikacin, ME1100 significantly improved the survival rate compared withamikacin. Conclusions: The results of our study demonstrated the in vivo effectiveness of ME1100 and its superiority to amikacin.

doi:10.1016/j.tube.2010.08.009
Title:Inhaled drug therapy for treatment of tuberculosis
Authors:A. MisraA.J. HickeyC. RossiG. BorchardH. TeradaK. MakinoP.B. FourieP. Colombo
Absract:The lungs have received attention as a portal for drug delivery in tuberculosis (TB) from researchers addressing diverse objectives. These include: (a) targeting alveolar macrophages that harbour TB bacilli; (b) maintaining high drug concentrations in lung tissue; (c) systemic delivery of potent or second-line anti-TB agents; and (d) delivering agents that may change the host-pathogen dialectic. Formulation design considerations for each of the above objectives differ in slight, but important ways. As distinct from vaccine delivery formulations, inhalations intended for drug delivery are presumed to require chronic and repeated administration of larger amounts of material. This review seeks to summarize the consensus on the ways and means available or under development, to deliver different anti-TB agents as aerosols for inhalation. These agents include drugs in current clinical use, singly or in combination, experimental chemical entities, siRNA against host molecules, and finally, drugs in clinical use for unrelated pharmacological action, as modifiers of the host-pathogen dialectic. The pharmacokinetics of drug bioavailability in the lung, the blood and other tissues following lung deposition of inhaled therapies are also addressed. Finally, considerations on efficacy studies of drugs administered through aerosol delivery are discussed. © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2020.101991
Title:Inhalable microparticles containing terbinafine for management of pulmonary fungal infections: Spray drying process engineering using lactose vs. mannitol as excipients
Authors:K. AlmansourI.M. AlfagihR. AliM.M.A. Elsayed
Absract:Terbinafine is a broad-spectrum antifungal agent with potential therapeutic value in management of pulmonary aspergillosis. To this end, dry powder inhalation formulations of terbinafine hydrochloride were prepared by nano spray drying, following a 2@sup_begin3@sup_end factorial experimental design. The experimental design aimed to study and optimize influences of the excipient (lactose vs. mannitol), the spray solvent (hydroethanolic vs. aqueous), and the drying gas inlet temperature (90 vs. 75 °C) on characteristics and aerodynamic performance of spray-dried formulations. For the mannitol-based formulations, the hydroethanolic (50.5% w/w ethanol) spray solvent resulted in smaller, up to 3.5-fold more-respirable particles and greater yields than the aqueous solvent. Increasing the inlet temperature had a negative impact on the aerodynamic performance of the mannitol-based formulations. For the lactose-based formulations, the hydroethanolic spray solvent also resulted in smaller, more-respirable particles but with poorer drug loading and poorer solid-state stability than the aqueous solvent. Increasing the inlet temperature had a positive impact on the aerodynamic performance of the lactose-based formulations. The observed influences are thoroughly discussed. After dispersion in a surrogate for the bronchial/alveolar fluid, all the formulations exhibited partial (<40%) drug dissolution. Undissolved drug particles were smaller than 160 nm in diameter, suggesting they have potential to avoid clearance by alveolar macrophages and mucociliary escalation and to thus provide prolonged local action. Two formulations were selected for further development and testing.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2017.1415
Title:The rationale and evidence for use of inhaled antibiotics to control Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis
Authors:R. Dhand
Absract:Non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (NCFBE) is a chronic inflammatory lung disease characterized by irreversible dilation of the bronchi, symptoms of persistent cough and expectoration, and recurrent infective exacerbations. The prevalence of NCFBE is on the increase in the United States and Europe, but no licensed therapies are currently available for its treatment. Although there are many similarities between NCFBE and cystic fibrosis (CF) in terms of respiratory symptoms, airway microbiology, and disease progression, there are key differences, for example, in response to treatment, suggesting differences in pathogenesis. This review discusses possible reasons underlying differences in response to inhaled antibiotics in people with CF and NCFBE. Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections are associated with the most severe forms of bronchiectasis. Suboptimal levels of antibiotics in the lung increase the mutation frequency of P. aeruginosa and lead to the development of mucoid strains characterized by formation of a protective polysaccharide biofilm. Mucoid strains of P. aeruginosa are associated with a chronic infection stage, requiring long-term antibiotic therapy. Inhaled antibiotics provide targeted delivery to the lung with minimal systemic toxicity and adverse events compared with oral/intravenous routes of administration, and they could be alternative treatment options to help address some of the treatment challenges in the management of severe cases of NCFBE. This review provides an overview of completed and ongoing trials that evaluated inhaled antibiotic therapy for NCFBE. Recently, several investigators conducted phase 3 randomized controlled trials with inhaled aztreonam and ciprofloxacin in patients with NCFBE. While the aztreonam trial results were not associated with significant clinical benefit in NCFBE, initial results reported from the inhaled ciprofloxacin (dry powder for inhalation and liposome-encapsulated/dual-release formulations) trials hold promise. A more targeted approach could identify specific populations of NCFBE patients who benefit from inhaled antibiotics.

doi:10.1185/03007995.2010.511971
Title:Insulin pharmacokinetics following dosing with Technosphere insulin in subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:E. PotockaN. AminJ. CassidyS.L. SchwartzM. GrayP.C. RichardsonR.A. Baughman
Absract:Objectives: Insulin exposure after inhalation has been reported to be altered significantly in subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In this study, the rate and extent of insulin exposure was compared in healthy volunteers and subjects with COPD following administration of Technosphere* Insulin (TI), a dry powder insulin formulation for pulmonary delivery. Methods: Insulin pharmacokinetics were evaluated in an open-label, single-dose, hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic glucose clamp study in 19 nondiabetic, nonsmoking healthy subjects (mean age [±SD]50.9±14.1 years, body mass index29.1±3.5kg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end, forced expiratory volume in 1second (FEV1)3.52±1.02L) and 17 nondiabetic subjects with mild-to-moderate COPD (mean age60.0±9.0 years, body mass index28.5±5kg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end, FEV12.56±0.83L). Subjects received a single 30-U dose of TI. Serial blood samples were obtained for insulin and C-peptide determination through 480min after dosing. Insulin concentrations were adjusted for endogenous insulin by C-peptide correction; pharmacokinetic parameters were estimated using the corrected values. Results: For the COPD and non-COPD groups, respectively, mean peak insulin (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) was 34.7U/mL and 39.5U/mL (p=0.29), median tmax was 15 and 12min (p0.24), and mean insulin exposure from time 0 to 240min (AUC0240) was 2037U/mLmin and 2279U/mLmin (p=0.47). Cough was the most common respiratory adverse event observed. One instance of hypoglycemia was reported and was attributed to trial procedure. Conclusions: The rapid insulin absorption and the resulting insulin pharmacokinetic profile following TI inhalation were not significantly altered in the mild-to-moderate COPD population studied; however, long-term safety and efficacy of TI have not been established in patients with mild or moderate COPD. Longer-term experience is needed to fully characterize the effects of COPD on insulin PK following TI administration. © 2010 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.07.030
Title:In vivo efficacy of dendrimer-methylprednisolone conjugate formulation for the treatment of lung inflammation
Authors:R. InapagollaB.R. GuruY.E. KurtogluX. GaoM. Lieh-LaiD.J.P. BassettR.M. Kannan
Absract:Dendrimers are an emerging class of nanoscale intracellular drug delivery vehicles. Methylprednisolone (MP) is an important corticosteroid used in the treatment (through inhalation) of lung inflammation associated with asthma. The ability of MP-polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimer conjugate to improve the airway delivery was evaluated in a pulmonary inflammatory murine model that was based on an 11-fold enhancement of eosinophil lung accumulation following five daily inhalation exposures of sensitized mice to the experimental allergen, ovalbumin. MP was successfully conjugated to PAMAM-G4-OH dendrimer yielding 12 MP molecules per dendrimer, and further solubilized in lysine carrier. Five daily trans-nasal treatments with the carrier alone, free MP, and MP-dendrimer at 5mgkg@sup_begin-1@sup_end (on a drug basis) did not induce additional lung inflammation, although free MP decreased baseline phagocytic cell recoveries by airway lavage and tissue collagenase dispersion. MP treatments alone decreased ovalbumin-associated airway and tissue eosinophil recoveries by 71 and 47%, respectively. Equivalent daily MP dosing with MP-dendrimer conjugate further diminished these values, with decreases of 87% and 67%, respectively. These findings demonstrate that conjugation of MP with a dendrimer enhances the ability of MP to decrease allergen-induced inflammation, perhaps by improving drug residence time in the lung. This is supported by the fact that only 24% of a single dose of dendrimer delivered to the peripheral lung is lost over a 3-day period. Therefore, conjugation of drugs to a dendrimer may provide an improved method for retaining drugs within the lung when treating such inflammatory disorders as asthma. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1097/MCC.0b013e328012e022
Title:Inhalation therapy in invasive and noninvasive mechanical ventilation
Authors:R. Dhand
Absract:PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The aim of this article is to discuss the various factors that influence aerosol delivery in mechanically ventilated patients and clarify optimal techniques for aerosol administration in this patient population. Clinical use of various inhaled therapies in patients receiving invasive and noninvasive mechanical ventilation is also discussed. RECENT FINDINGS: With optimal techniques for using pressurized metered-dose inhalers and nebulizers in ventilator circuits, the efficiency of inhaled drug delivery in mechanically ventilated patients is comparable to that in ambulatory patients. Techniques for enhancing inhaled drug delivery during noninvasive positive pressure ventilation are also being investigated. SUMMARY: Pressurized metered-dose inhalers of bronchodilator and corticosteroid aerosols are more efficient and convenient to use than nebulizers for routine therapy in ventilated patients. Nebulizers are, however, more versatile and are employed to generate aerosols of bronchodilators, corticosteroids, antibiotics, prostaglandins, surfactant, and mucolytic agents. Factors influencing drug delivery during noninvasive positive pressure ventilation are not fully understood as yet, and further work is needed to enhance drug delivery in this setting. Improvements in drug formulations and the design and efficiency of aerosol generating devices have led to increasing application of inhaled therapies in mechanically ventilated patients. © 2007 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Inc.

doi:10.1378/chest.120.3_suppl.94S
Title:Formulation of aerosolized therapeutics
Authors:R.J. Kuhn
Absract:Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA), which colonizes the airways of approximately 90% of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) at some point during their lives, is an important contributor to the vicious cycle of infection and inflammation leading to bronchiectasis and eventual respiratory failure. Oral antibiotic therapy is often ineffective in treating PA infections. Instead, in-hospital IV aminoglycoside therapy administered in combination with other IV antibiotics, such as β-lactams or quinolones, is the mainstay of treatment. The specific chemical and physical properties of CF sputum require high serum antibiotic levels for effective antimicrobial treatment; however, IV aminoglycoside therapy is associated with an increased risk of ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. In an attempt to avoid systemic toxicity and effectively treat PA infections, clinicians have combined IV antibiotics with sterile solutions of saline or water to aerosolize the mixture for inhalation. Experience with such "home brews" has clearly demonstrated that IV preparations are neither intended nor medically indicated for inhalation. Patients may experience coughing, mucosal irritation, or bronchospasm in response to the preservatives, stabilizing agents, and other additives commonly found in IV preparations. While the rationale for aerosolized drug delivery remains compelling, concerns about uniform dose delivery, ineffective nebulization, and therapeutic adherence arise. Since the 1940s, when these efforts began, ongoing research and clinical trials have identified several additional factors affecting inhaled drug delivery and deposition in the airways. This article chronicles some of the challenges faced by researchers and elucidates factors critical to the reformulation of a safe and effective antibiotic solution for aerosolized delivery.

doi:10.1046/j.1365-2125.1996.03505.x
Title:Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of BAY x 7195 aerosol, a new and selective receptor antagonist of cysteinyl-leukotrienes, in normal volunteers
Authors:G. WensingR. HeinigJ. Kuhlmann
Absract:1. The safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of BAY x 7195 aerosol, a new selective receptor antagonist of cysteinyl-leukotrienes, were investigated in healthy male volunteers in two observational studies (1 and 2 mg; n = 5 each) and two double blind, placebo-controlled two way crossover studies (4 and 8 mg; n = 6 each) using the commercially available Inhaler Ingelheim M®. 2. The pharmacodynamic effect was assessed by testing the ability of BAY x 7195 aerosol to inhibit leukotriene-D@sub_begin4@sub_end (LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end) induced bronchoconstriction in healthy volunteers. Using a double-blind, placebo-controlled three way crossover design, volunteers received 2 and 4 mg of BAY x 7195 by means of a newly developed metered dose dry powder inhaler. Bronchoprovocation with nebulized LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end was performed 20 min and 8 h (n = 6 each) after drug administration. Specific airways conductance (SGaw) served to assess the airway's response. 3. BAY x 7195 aerosol was safe and well tolerated. Inhalation of the aerosol had no effect on baseline lung function. Only one volunteer reported cough following the inhalation of the 8 mg dose. 4. The pharmacokinetics of unchanged drug following the administration of BAY x 7195 aerosol were linear in the investigated range of doses and in general very similar to a previously investigated tablet formulation. Plasma-concentration us time courses followed a two-compartment body model. Compared with oral administration of the tablet formulation absorption tended to be more rapid with the aerosol formulation. 5. Compared with placebo, 2 and 4 mg BAY x 7195 increased the concentration of LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end needed to produce a 35% decrease in SGaw 20 min after drug administration by a mean (geometric) of 14.2 and 29.7 fold, respectively. For both doses only three volunteers showed a protective effect against LTD@sub_begin4@sub_end induced bronchoconstriction 8 h after drug administration. Individual shifts in the concentration-response curve ranged between 0.4 and 7.2 fold. 6. In conclusion, the present results suggest that BAY x 7195 aerosol is a safe and potent but short acting receptor antagonist of cysteinyl leukotrienes in man.

pui:26134887
Title:The pulmonary deposition of two aerosol preparations of nedocromil sodium delivered by MDI assessed by single photon emission computed tomography
Authors:Q.A. SummersJ.S. FlemingY. DaiS. PerringR. HoneywellK.J. GoughA.G. RenwickA.R. ClarkM.A. NassimS.T. Holgate
Absract:The pulmonary deposition and pharmacokinetics of fine and coarse radioactive aerosols of nedocromil sodium, of mass median aerodynamic diameters 16μm and 24μm respectively, delivered by metered dose inhaler (MDI) have been investigated. The corresponding geometric standard deviations of the particle size distributions were 5.32 and 3.93. Pulmonary deposition was assessed by both planar radionuclide scintigraphy and multi-modality three dimensional imaging using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and x-ray computed tomography (CT). The three dimensional data were analysed by transformation to a hemispherical shape based on the fractional radial distance of each point in the lung from the centre to the corresponding extrapolated point on the periphery. This enabled parameters on the variation of both concentration of deposition and total amount deposited with penetration distance to be calculated. For both planar and SPECT data the central to peripheral concentration ratio (C/P ratio) was calculated. The three dimensional C/P ratio showed a median value (3.21) which was significantly higher than for the planar imaging (2.03) (p<0.001). The parameter used to express the variation of total amount deposited was the median dose position. This showed that for both aerosols 50% of the dose was deposited at sites with a percentage central to peripheral distance of greater than 68%. There was a trend for total percentage of the fine aerosol in the lungs to be higher than for the coarse and for its deposition to be more peripheral. In addition the mean concentrations in blood were measured to be greater for the fine aerosol. However these differences were relatively small and none were individually statistically significant. The technique of combined SPECT and CT imaging was shown to be valuable in obtaining more accurate information on pulmonary distribution of inhaled aerosol deposition. The merits, limitations and potential applications of the technique are discussed.

doi:10.1164/ajrccm/151.4.1053
Title:Use of a fixed combination β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist and steroid dry powder inhaler in asthma
Authors:P.J. BarnesB.J. O'Connor
Absract:In many countries the majority of patients with asthma are now treated with inhaled β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists as required and regular inhaled steroids. Compliance with asthma medication is poor, particularly for inhaled steroids, which do not give immediate relief of symptoms. An inhaler combining a β@sub_begin2@sub_end- agonist and asteroid may improve compliance and give better control of asthma. We have studied the effect of a fixed combination dry powder inhaler (Turbuhaler®) containing terbutaline (250 μg) with budesonide (200 μg) compared with each drug given alone in a double-blind, crossover study in 74 patients with mild to moderate asthma. This was a multicenter study performed in general practice. After a 1-wk run-in period with placebo inhaler, each treatment was given twice daily for 4 wk in randomized order. Patients measured symptom scorns and rescue inhaled β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist use and recorded peak expiratory flow (PEF) twice daily. In nine patients recruited to a hospital center, airway responsiveness was measured by the concentration of methacholine required to produce a fall in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of 20% (PC@sub_begin20@sub_end) at the end of each treatment period. Of 74 patients randomized, 68 completed all three treatment periods. Their mean age was 37 (18-60) yr and PEF 80 (43-116) % predicted. Combination treatment gave a significant improvement in morning and evening PEF budesonide or terbutaline treatment periods (p < 0.01), and a significant reduction in asthma symptom scores and rescue β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist use (p < 0.05). There was a significant patient preference for the combination inhaler. Measurement of compliance by counting unused doses showed good compliance with no significant difference between treatments. In nine patients who underwent methacholine challenge, both combination and budesonide treatment significantly improved PC@sub_begin20@sub_end by almost two doubling dilutions compared with baseline, whereas there was no protection after treatment with terbutaline. The acute protection 1 h after inhalation was significantly greater (p < 0.05) after combination than after terbutaline inhalation. We suggest that a fixed combination inhaler containing a low dose β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist and an inhaled steroid provides a small but significant improvement in the control of mild asthma and may simplify its long-term management.

doi:10.1517/14656566.2012.656090
Title:Tobramycin for the treatment of bacterial pneumonia in children
Authors:M. BothraR. LodhaS.K. Kabra
Absract:Introduction: Common etiological agents for community-acquired lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) include Streptococcus pneumoniae, Hemophilus influenzae and Mycoplasma pneumoniae and can be easily managed with oral or intravenous antibiotics. However, LRTI in patients with underlying illnesses, such as cystic fibrosis (CF) and immune deficiency, or on ventilator support is difficult to manage because these are caused by Gram-negative bacilli. Tobramycin has been shown to be effective in the management of these patients. Areas covered: Information about the antimicrobial activity, pharmacological aspects (including pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics), clinical efficacy, safety and side effects of tobramycin have been covered in this review. Expert opinion: A major advance for the use of tobramycin has occurred with its use by the inhalational route, in children with CF. The inhalation route provides the advantage of ease of administration for prolonged periods at home and allows use of very high doses. Systematic reviews suggest that tobramycin inhalation improves outcome, decreases the need for hospitalization and decreases the need for use of frequent systemic antibiotics in CF patients colonized with pseudomonas. Data on the efficacy of inhaled tobramycin in non-CF bronchiectasis are scarce, as are data on the prevention and treatment of ventilator- associated pneumonia, and on the role of combining inhaled tobramycin with systemic tobramycin. Despite limitations, this drug has the potential to be used in various conditions other than CF. © 2012 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1590/S0100-879X2003001000009
Title:Evaluation of two @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA radioaerosols with different characteristics in lung ventilation studies
Authors:C.M. SilveiraM.L.V. CastiglioniI.C.G. TorresR.B. MedeirosJ.R. Jardim
Absract:Two radioaerosol preparations, TechneScan®-DTPA (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA, 40 mCi/3 ml; IPEN-CNEN, São Paulo, SP, Brazil) and TechneScan®-DTPA/AEROSOL (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA/A, 15 mCi/1.5 ml with 0.5 ml ethanol; Mallinckrodt Medical, St. Louis, MO, USA , were compared in pulmonary ventilation studies in terms of total radiocounts and clearance after inhalation. An aerosol with ethanol is supposed to better distribute the radioparticles in the lungs. Twenty normal nonsmoking volunteers (10 men and 10 women), mean age of 23.2 years (range: 20 to 35 years), were studied. Images were obtained immediately and 30, 60 and 90 min after inhalation. Total and regional counts were obtained and the clearance half-lives of both lungs were determined. There was no difference in total counts between the two types of radioaerosol at any time (mean of ∼188,000 cpm for male and female subjects at time zero in both aerosols). The highest count was obtained in the middle region of both lungs (P<0.001) with both preparations. The clearance half-life did not differ between aerosols (mean of ∼80-88 min for male and female subjects for both aerosols). Small nonsignificant regional differences were observed. No differences between genders or between right and left lung were observed. @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA/A generated the highest output of radioaerosol. @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA with alcohol costs approximately five times more than the aerosol without alcohol. The present results show that either kind of aerosol may be adopted routinely for use in pulmonary examinations without affecting diagnosis. We suggest that the amount of 740 mBq (20 mCi) of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-DTPA in 1.5 ml saline can be used for routine examinations resulting in reduction of costs in pulmonary ventilation studies without diagnostic impairment.

pui:25324895
Title:Babyhaler - A new paediatric aerosol device
Authors:R. Kraemer
Absract:Nebulizers have, until recently, been the mainstay of drug delivery by inhalation in babies and young children. The willingness of a young child to cooperate, however, is limited and the 10-12 mins needed to deliver drug using a nebulizer often limits the compliance with this mode of administration in infants. Therefore, drug delivery systems using the metered-dose inhaler (MDI) as the aerosol generator attached to valved holding chambers were developed. The breathing pattern of a baby with lung disease is quite different from that of older children and adults, for whom most large-volume devices were developed. Infants have a high respiratory frequency, small tidal volume, and low inspiratory airflow rate. Therefore, specific conditions for optimal drug use in this particular group of patients have to be met. Efficacy of topical drug delivery depends on the generation of aerosol particles with an adequate size distribution (technical prerequisites), the breathing pattern of the child (physiological requirements), and the willingness of a young child to cooperate with parental drug administration (practicality and compliance). Infants with lung disease have a tidal volume of 8-10ml/kg body weight. The volume of a spacer device must be such that about 5-10 breaths would be needed to provide an adequate dose. In addition, the dimensions of a spacer device must be such that sufficient drug particles of optimal size will be generated to minimize impaction and deposition within the device. The Babyhaler consists of a tubular chamber 230mm long, with a volume of 350ml and low-resistance inspiratory and expiratory valves. The drug aerosol, which has a mass median diameter of 3.21μm, is contained briefly within the holding chamber to allow the young child to inhale the medication during normal tidal breathing. Face masks used in conjunction with the Babyhaler provide an effective seal. The overall dead space volume was found to be approximately 55ml. Efficacy was demonstrated in several clinical trials that evaluated bronchodilator response to β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists, functional antagonism against bronchial aerosol challenge and efficacy of topical corticosteroids. These results plus additional handling studies have demonstrated that infants and young children can be treated using the inhalation route, and several important practical problems which previously limited drug compliance have been overcome.

doi:10.1021/acsbiomaterials.8b00992
Title:Supercritical Fluid-Assisted Decoration of Nanoparticles on Porous Microcontainers for Codelivery of Therapeutics and Inhalation Therapy of Diabetes
Authors:R.K. KankalaX.-F. LinH.-F. SongS.-B. WangD.-Y. YangY.S. ZhangA.-Z. Chen
Absract:The impact of nanotechnology and its advancements have allowed us to explore new therapeutic modalities. To this end, we designed nanoparticles-inlaid porous microparticles (NIPMs) coloaded with small interfering RNA (siRNA) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) using the supercritical carbon dioxide (SC-CO@sub_begin2@sub_end) technology as an inhalation delivery system for diabetes therapy. siRNA-encapsulating chitosan (CS) nanoparticles were first synthesized by an ionic gelation method, which resulted in particles with small sizes (100-150 nm), high encapsulation efficiency (94.8%), and sustained release performance (60% in 32 h). These CS nanoparticles were then loaded with GLP-1-dispersed poly-l-lactide (PLLA) porous microparticles (PMs) by SC-CO@sub_begin2@sub_end-assisted precipitation with the compressed antisolvent (PCA) process. The hypoglycemic efficacy of NIPMs administered via pulmonary route in mice persisted longer due to sustained release of siRNA from CS nanoparticles and the synergistic effects of GLP-1 in PMs, which significantly inhibited the expression of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 mRNA (DPP-4-mRNA). This ecofriendly technology provides a convenient way to fabricate nanoparticle-microparticle composites for codelivery of a gene and a therapeutic peptide, which will potentially find widespread applications in the field of pharmaceutics.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2014.05.066
Title:Synthesis and evaluation of sodium deoxycholate sulfate as a lipid drug carrier to enhance the solubility, stability and safety of an amphotericin B inhalation formulation
Authors:K.N. GangadharK. AdhikariT. Srichana
Absract:Amphotericin B (AmB) is still used as the gold standard for therapy against invasive fungal diseases. However, the use of AmB through oral administration is restricted due to its low solubility and stability in aqueous solution, which is the cause for its poor bioavailability and highly varying absorption. Therefore, an attempt has been made to enhance the solubility and stability of AmB to evaluate its bioactivity and safety for use as an inhaler by using a new excipient sodium deoxycholate sulfate (SDS) with aim of using it as a drug carrier for AmB. Therefore, SDS was formulated together with AmB as a dry powder by lyophilization. The dry powder was reconstituted in distilled water and evaluated its physicochemical properties such as zeta potential, particle size and pH to compare its solubility and stability of the formulations with a SDC-AmB (i.e., known as Fungizone@sup_begin®@sup_end). In vitro toxicity studies were carried out with red blood cells (RBC) and respiratory cell lines. Bioactivity was determined by a micro-dilution method against Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans. We found that SDS-AmB had a zeta potential (-45.53 mV), which was higher than of Fungizone@sup_begin®@sup_end; and produced a stable particle size in solution (73.8 nm). The particle size distributions of both formulations were expressed as their mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMAD; 1.70 and 1.74 μm), their fine particle fractions (FPF; 70 and 80%) and geometric standard deviations (GSD; 2.3 and 2.0), respectively. These values indicated that the sizes were appropriate for use in an inhaler. Pure AmB was found to hemolyse RBC and was very toxic to alveolar macrophage cells, as their viability rapidly declined from 93 to 56% when the AmB concentration increased from 1 to 8 μg/mL. The SDS-AmB formulation had a significantly reduced toxicity compared to AmB. The results clearly indicated that the SDS-lipid based nanoparticles had the potential to be used as an alternative option to Fungizone@sup_begin®@sup_end for an AmB formulation for inhalation. © 2014 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.17795/jjnpp-9990
Title:Nasal drug delivery in traditional Persian medicine
Authors:Zarshenas MohammadA. ZargaranJ. MaüllerA. Mohagheghzadeh
Absract:Background: Over one hundred different pharmaceutical dosage forms have been recorded in literatures of Traditional Persian Medicine among which nasal forms are considerable. Objectives: This study designed to derive the most often applied nasal dosage forms together with those brief clinical administrations. Materials and Methods: In the current study remaining pharmaceutical manuscripts of Persia during 9th to 18th century AD have been studied and different dosage forms related to nasal application of herbal medicines and their therapeutic effects were derived. Results: By searching through pharmaceutical manuscripts of medieval Persia, different nasal dosage forms involving eleven types related to three main groups are found. These types could be derived from powder, solution or liquid and gaseous forms. Gaseous form were classified into fumigation (Bakhoor), vapor bath (Enkebab), inhalation (Lakhlakheh), aroma agents (Ghalieh) and olfaction or smell (Shomoom). Nasal solutions were as drops (Ghatoor), nasal snuffing drops (Saoot) and liquid snuffformulations (Noshoogh). Powders were as nasal insufflation or snorting agents (Nofookh) and errhine or sternutator medicine (Otoos). Nasal forms were not applied only for local purposes. Rather systemic disorders and specially CNS complications were said to be a target for these dosage forms. Discussion: While this novel type of drug delivery is known as a suitable substitute for oral and parenteral administration, it was well accepted and extensively mentioned in Persian medical and pharmaceutical manuscripts and other traditional systems of medicine as well. Accordingly, medieval pharmaceutical standpoints on nasal dosage forms could still be an interesting subject of study. Therefore, the current work can briefly show the pharmaceutical knowledge on nasal formulations in medieval Persia and clarify a part of history of traditional Persian pharmacy. © 2013, School of Pharmacy, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences; Licensee DocS Ltd.

doi:10.1093/toxsci/kfr109
Title:A safety evaluation of DAS181, a sialidase fusion protein, in rodents
Authors:J.L. LarsonS.-K. KangB.I. ChoiM. HedlundL.M. AschenbrennerB. CecilG. MachadoM. NiederF. Fang
Absract:DAS181 is a novel inhaled drug candidate blocking influenza virus (IFV) and parainfluenza virus (PIV) infections through removal of sialic acid receptors from epithelial surface of the respiratory tract. To support clinical development, a 28-day Good Laboratory Practices inhalation toxicology study was conducted in Sprague-Dawley rats. In this study, achieved average daily doses based on exposure concentrations were 0.47, 0.90, 1.55, and 3.00 mg/kg/day of DAS181 in a dry powder formulation. DAS181 was well tolerated at all dose levels, and there were no significant toxicological findings. DAS181 administration did not affect animal body weight, food consumption, clinical signs, ophthalmology, respiratory parameters, or organ weight. Gross pathology evaluations were unremarkable. Histological examination of the lungs was devoid of pulmonary tissue damage, and findings were limited to mild and transient changes indicative of exposure and clearance of a foreign protein. DAS181 did not show any cytotoxic effects on human and animal primary cells, including hepatocytes, skeletal muscle cells, osteoblasts, or respiratory epithelial cells. DAS181 did not cause direct or indirect hemolysis. A laboratory abnormality observed in the 28-day toxicology study was mild and transient anemia in male rats at the 3.00 mg/kg dose, which is an expected outcome of enhanced clearance of desialylated red blood cells resulting from systemic exposure with DAS181. Another laboratory observation was a transient dose-dependent elevation in alkaline phosphatase (ALP), which can be attributed to reduced ALP clearance resulting from increased protein desialylation due to DAS181 systemic exposure. These laboratory parameters returned to normal at the end of the recovery period. © The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved.

pui:28433936
Title:Development and calibration of a low-flow version of the Marple-Miller impactor (MMI(TM))
Authors:B.A. OlsonV.A. MarpleJ.P. MitchellM.W. Nagel
Absract:Cascade impactor analysis of drugs for inhalation in aerosol form is regarded by both European and U.S. pharmacopoeias as an important method to determine particle size-related information concerning dose that might be delivered to various parts of the respiratory tract. Existing measurements usually are made at flow rates in excess of 25 l/min, which are more representative of peak inspiratory flow rates achieved by adults. There is therefore a need for a low-flow impactor that can be used to evaluate drug delivery devices intended for use by infants or small children, or by those whose disease status prevents the achievement of higher inspiratory flow rates. A new version of the Marple-Miller impactor(TM) (MMI(TM) is described that meets this need, operating at either 4.9 or 12 l/min by the substitution of a different uppermost stage jet. A novel feature is the use of external stage collection cups instead of plates, enabling quantitative transfer of drug collecting on each stage for subsequent chemical assay. Calibration data and an assessment of inter-stage losses are presented for each of the flow rates.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.118818
Title:High siRNA loading powder for inhalation prepared by co-spray drying with human serum albumin
Authors:M.Y.T. ChowY. QiuQ. LiaoP.C.L. KwokS.F. ChowH.-K. ChanJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:The development of small interfering RNA (siRNA) formulation for pulmonary delivery is a key to the clinical translation of siRNA therapeutics for the treatment of respiratory diseases. Most inhalable siRNA powder formulations published to date were limited by the siRNA content which was often too low to be clinically relevant. This study aimed to prepare inhalable siRNA powder formulations that contained high siRNA loading of over 6% w/w by spray drying, with human serum albumin (HSA) investigated as a dispersion enhancer to improve the aerosol performance. The effect of siRNA, HSA and solute concentrations in the formulations were evaluated systemically using factorial analyses. All the spray dried siRNA powders exhibited excellent aerosol performance with fine particle fraction (FPF) consistently over 50% in all the formulations. An enrichment of HSA on the particle surface was observed. Surface corrugation was more prominent as HSA composition increased. Importantly, the bioactivity of siRNA was successfully preserved upon spray drying as demonstrated in the in vitro transfection study, and up to 78% of intact siRNA retained in the spray dried powder. Overall, HSA is an effective dispersion enhancer and spray drying is an appropriate technique to produce inhalable dry powder with high siRNA loading for further investigation.

doi:10.1038/s41541-019-0102-z
Title:Single dose of DPX-rPA, an enhanced-delivery anthrax vaccine formulation, protects against a lethal Bacillus anthracis spore inhalation challenge
Authors:G.M. WeirL.D. MacDonaldR. RajagopalanG.S. SivkoM.W. ValderasJ. RaynerB.J. BergerL. SammaturM.M. Stanford
Absract:Anthrax is a serious biological threat caused by pulmonary exposure to aerosolized spores of Bacillus anthracis. Biothrax@sup_begin®@sup_end (anthrax vaccine adsorbed (AVA)) is the only Food and Drug Administration-licensed vaccine and requires five administrations over 12 months with annual boosting to maintain pre-exposure prophylaxis. Here we report the evaluation of a single intramuscular injection of recombinant B. anthracis-protective antigen (rPA) formulated in the DPX delivery platform. Immune responses were compared to an alum-based formulation in mice and rabbits. Serological analysis of anti-rPA immunoglobulin G and toxin neutralization activity demonstrated higher responses induced by DPX-rPA when compared to rPA in alum. DPX-rPA was compared to AVA in rabbits and non-human primates (NHPs). In both species, DPX-rPA generated responses after a single immunization, whereas AVA required two immunizations. In rabbits, single injection of DPX-rPA or two injections of AVA conferred 100% protection from anthrax challenge. In NHPs, single-dose DPX-rPA was 100% protective against challenge, whereas one animal in the two-dose AVA group and all saline administered animals succumbed to infection. DPX-rPA was minimally reactogenic in all species tested. These data indicate that DPX-rPA may offer improvement over AVA by reducing the doses needed for protective immune responses and is a promising candidate as a new-generation anthrax vaccine.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2019.104968
Title:Cytotoxicity screening of emulsifiers for pulmonary application of lipid nanoparticles
Authors:V. SteinerK. ÖhlingerC. CorzoS. Salar-BehzadiE. Fröhlich
Absract:Introduction: The pulmonary route is a non-invasive administration route that receives growing attention. The challenge for formulation development of orally inhaled formulations is, however, the limited number of approved excipients. Lipid nanoparticles are desired drug delivery systems for inhalation because lipids are biocompatible. However, addition of emulsifiers to stabilize the formulation may cause toxic effects. Alveolar epithelial cells and alveolar macrophages are the main cell types that get in contact with inhaled formulations in the deep lung. The different cell types are supposed to differ in the extent of particle uptake. Kolliphor RH40, Poloxamer 188, and Tween 80 are approved for use in oral formulations and widely used in the academic field for manufacturing of lipid nanoparticles. However, little is known about their pulmonary toxicity. Methods: Cytotoxicity of Kolliphor RH40, Poloxamer 188, and Tween 80 was studied by integration into solid lipid nanoparticles loaded with itraconazole as model drug. Cytotoxicity of the formulations was assessed in human alveolar epithelial cells and human and murine macrophages and correlated to cell uptake. Results: The tested emulsifiers showed overall low cytotoxicity with less pronounced adverse effects in human cells than in murine macrophages. Cellular uptake of Poloxamer 188 containing lipid nanoparticles was decreased in macrophages, while uptake of lipid nanoparticles with the other emulsifiers was similar in epithelial cells and phagocytes. Conclusion: The tested emulsifiers appear suitable for use in pulmonary applications. Due to larger cell size and lower proliferation rate human cells showed lower cytotoxicity than the murine cells. Being human cells, they appear more suitable for the screening of adverse effects in human lungs.

doi:10.1007/s11095-018-2527-x
Title:Understanding the Impacts of Surface Compositions on the In-Vitro Dissolution and Aerosolization of Co-Spray-Dried Composite Powder Formulations for Inhalation
Authors:S. MangalR. XuH. ParkD. ZemlyanovN. ShettyY.-W. LinD. MortonH.-K. ChanJ. LiQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Purpose: Dissolution behavior of dry powder inhaler (DPI) antibiotic formulations in the airways may affect their efficacy especially for poorly-soluble antibiotics such as azithromycin. The main objective of this study was to understand the effects of surface composition on the dissolution of spray dried azithromycin powders by itself and in combination with colistin. Methods: Composite formulations of azithromycin (a poorly water-soluble molecule) and colistin (a water-soluble molecule) were produced by spray drying. The resultant formulations were characterized for particle size, morphology, surface composition, solid-state properties, solubility and dissolution. Results: The results demonstrate that surfaces composition has critical impacts on the dissolution of composite formulations. Colistin was shown to increase the solubility of azithromycin. For composite formulations with no surface colistin, azithromycin released at a similar dissolution rate as the spray-dried azithromycin alone. An increase in surface colistin concentration was shown to accelerate the dissolution of azithromycin. The dissolution of colistin from the composite formulations was significantly slower than the spray-dried pure colistin. In addition, FTIR spectrum showed intermolecular interactions between azithromycin and colistin in the composite formulations, which could contribute to the enhanced solubility and dissolution of azithromycin. Conclusions: Our study provides fundamental understanding of the effects of surface concentration of colistin on azithromycin dissolution of co-spray-dried composite powder formulations.

pui:71988875
Title:In vitro comparison of aerosol characteristics of three HFA pressurized metered dose inhaler formulations commonly used in asthma using two valved holding chambers
Authors:D. Von HollenL. SlatorK. NikanderR.H.M. Hatley
Absract:RATIONALE: Valved holding chambers (VHCs) are used with pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) to facilitate aerosol delivery in the treatment of asthma. The OptiChamber Diamond (Diamond; Philips Respironics) VHC is a compact, anti-static VHC designed to improve and optimize delivery from pMDIs. The in vitro aerosol characteristics from three pMDI drug formulations commonly used to treat asthma were compared using a preproduction Diamond VHC and an AeroChamber Plus Z-Stat (Z-Stat; Monaghan Medical Corp., Plattsburgh, NY) VHC. METHODS: Six of each brand of VHC were washed, rinsed and air dried before use. Six each of albuterol sulfate (salbutamol sulphate) pMDIs (ALB; ProAir HFA, 90 μg albuterol, Teva Respiratory LLC, Horsham, PA), fluticasone propionate pMDIs (FP; Flovent HFA, 110 μg fluticasone propionate, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC) and beclomethasone dipropionate pMDIs (BDP; QVAR HFA, 100 μg beclomethasone dipropionate, Teva Respiratory LLC, Horsham, PA) were primed before use, and shaken before each actuation. The pMDI and the pMDI VHC combinations were connected to a Next Generation Impactor (NGI; Copley Scientific Ltd, Nottingham, UK) with an extraction flow rate set at 30 L/min. After 10 actuations the drug deposited in the NGI was quantified using high performance liquid chromatography. Each test was performed with each pMDI alone, then with each pMDI VHC combination, and finally with each pMDI alone again. The mean emitted dose (drug entering NGI) per actuation, fine particle dose (amount of drug in particles ≤ 4.7 μm) and Mass Median Aerodynamic Diameter (MMAD) were calculated using Copley Inhalation Testing Data Analysis Software v3.10. RESULTS: The emitted dose of aerosol was higher from the pMDI alone than from the pMDI VHC combinations but for each drug the pMDI alone and pMDI VHC combinations had similar fine particle doses. CONCLUSIONS: The aerosol characteristics from the two pMDI VHC combinations were similar. The difference in emitted dose from the pMDI alone and the pMDI VHC combinations implies that the VHCs retained a large proportion of particles over 4.7 μm in size, which could potentially reduce oropharyngeal deposition in patients using a pMDI. (Table Presented).

doi:10.1517/17425247.3.6.47
Title:Effective inhaled drug administration to mechanically ventilated patients
Authors:R. DhandE. Mercier
Absract:Inhaled therapy is commonly employed in mechanically ventilated patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma. The efficacy of inhaled drugs is comparable to that achieved with systemic routes of administration, but the dose of drug required to achieve a therapeutic effect is generally much smaller. Moreover, limited systemic absorption of inhaled drugs minimises systemic side effects. Aerosol administration to ventilated patients differs from that in ambulatory patients in several respects. Optimal techniques for using pressurised metered-dose inhalers and nebulisers in ventilator circuits have been developed. With these techniques, the efficiency of inhaled drug delivery in mechanically ventilated patients is now comparable to that in ambulatory patients. Pressurised metered-dose inhalers are chiefly used to deliver bronchodilator and corticosteroid aerosols, and are more efficient and convenient to use than nebulisers for routine therapy in ventilated patients. However, nebulisers are more versatile and are employed to generate aerosols of bronchodilators, corticosteroids, antibiotics, prostaglandins, surfactant and mucolytic agents. Improvements in drug formulations and the design and efficiency of aerosol generating devices have led to increasing application of inhaled therapies in mechanically ventilated patients. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.lfs.2004.12.052
Title:Effects of inhalation anesthetics halothane, sevoflurane, and isoflurane on human cell lines
Authors:S. KvolikL. Glavas-ObrovacV. BaresI. Karner
Absract:Cytotoxic and antiproliferative effects of halothane, isoflurane, and sevoflurane in anesthetic doses on human colon carcinoma (Caco-2), larynx carcinoma (HEp-2), pancreatic carcinoma cells (MIA PaCa-2), poorly differentiated cells from lymph node metastasis of colon carcinoma (SW-620), and normal fibroblasts were investigated. Cells were exposed to anesthetic gas mixture consisting of O@sub_begin2@sub_end: N2O (35:60 vol.%), halothane (1.5 vol.%) or isoflurane (2.0 vol.%) or sevoflurane (3.0 vol.%), and CO@sub_begin2@sub_end (5 vol.%), for 2, 4, and 6 h. Cytotoxicity of anesthetics was analyzed by validated tetrazolium dye assay MTT test. All anesthetics expressed cytotoxic effects on treated tumor cells in time and cell line dependent manner. Growth suppression in cells exposed to halothane was enhanced in HEp-2 (to 67.7%), Caco-2 (to 76.3%), and SW620 cells (to 80.9%), and was minimal in normal fibroblasts (to 89.4%). Antiproliferative activity of halothane was measured via radioactive precursors incorporation assay. In Caco-2 cells treated by halothane, decrease in DNA synthesis (52.4%, p = 0.001), RNA synthesis (39.2%, p < 0.001), and protein synthesis (19.2%, p = 0.004) was observed. In HEp-2 cells, DNA and RNA syntheses were decreased to 72.5% and 79.9%, whereas protein synthesis was 14.0% of control (p < 0.001). In SW620 cells, protein synthesis after 4 h was 24.4% (p = 0.007). A DNA fragmentation was observed in Caco-2 and MIA PaCa-2 cells. Exposition of phosphatidylserine on outer lipid bilayer plasma membrane of tumor cell treated by halothane proved apoptosis as mode of cell death. © 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1023/A:1018952425107
Title:Behavior of hygroscopic pharmaceutical aerosols and the influence of hydrophobic additives
Authors:A.J. HickeyT.B. Martonen
Absract:The high temperature and relative humidity in the lung can result in the hygroscopic growth of susceptible aerosol particles or droplets. The term hygroscopic growth describes the increase in particle diameter which occurs as the result of association with water vapor. The influence of hygroscopicity upon lung deposition of aerosols has been a productive area of research in industrial hygiene, environmental sciences, and inhalation toxicology. Many pharmaceutical inhalation aerosols display hygroscopic behavior in their passage through the airways; however, the effect has been neglected. Controlling the phenomenon of hygroscopic growth and, thus, the related lung deposition of aerosols might result in the therapeutic advantage of targeting the site of action. Such an approach might also allow identification of the location of pharmacologic receptor sites in the lung. This Review discusses an approach to achieving control of hygroscopic growth of aerosol particles. Theoretical and experimental studies have indicated that inhaled particle diameters increased significantly for drugs commonly administered to the lung. The presence of certain additives, notably glycerol, cetyl alcohol, and lauric and capric acids, has been demonstrated to reduce the growth of particles under conditions approaching those in the lung. Very few quantitative studies of the nature discussed herein have appeared in the literature. It is conceivable that an aerosol particle could be fabricated of known initial size and density, and by implication, deposition characteristics, and this might be induced to follow specific growth kinetics to enhance deposition in a particular region of the lung. Thus, physical targeting of regions within the lung might be achieved.

doi:10.1081/DDC-200034575
Title:Comparison of the TSI model 3306 impactor inlet with the Andersen cascade impactor: Solution metered dose inhalers
Authors:P.B. MyrdalS.W. SteinE. MogalianW. HoyeA. Gupta
Absract:The product performance of a series of solution Metered Dose Inhalers (MDIs) were evaluated using the TSI Model 3306 Impactor Inlet and the Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). The goal of the study was to test whether the fine particle and coarse particle depositions obtained using the Model 3306 were comparable to those results obtained by ACI testing. The analysis using the Model 3306 was performed as supplied by the manufacturer as well as with 20 cm and 40 cm vertical extensions that were inserted between the Model 3306 and the USP Inlet. Nine different solution formulations were evaluated. The drug concentrations ranged from 0.08 to 0.8% w/w and the ethanol cosolvent concentration varied between 5 and 20% w/w. In general, it was found that good correlations between the two instruments were obtained. However, for formulations containing 10-20% w/w ethanol it is shown that an extension fitted to the Model 3306 yielded an improved correlation to those obtained from the ACI.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(02)00583-5
Title:Preparation and evaluation of a liposomal formulation of sodium cromoglicate
Authors:M.S. NagarsenkerV.Y. Londhe
Absract:Sodium cromoglicate (SCG) is given by inhalation in prophylactic control of asthma. It was encapsulated in liposomes with a view to improve utilization of the drug when given via pulmonary route. The liposomes were characterized for encapsulation efficiency, shape, size and release rate. Liposomal dispersions were freeze-dried using a cryoprotectant. Freeze-dried liposomal dispersion retained 60% of drug upon reconstitution but increase in size of liposomes was noted. Liposomes exhibited good keeping properties when stored at 4°C. In vivo performance of liposomal SCG was evaluated in sensitized guinea pigs. In one of the studies, differential leukocyte count and total leukocyte count in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid was measured. Liposomal dispersion showed significant inhibition of influx of neutrophils as compared with drug solution at 24 h. However, in the second study, when recovery period required by animal to revert back to normal respiratory pattern from the onset or preconvulsion time was measured, no significant difference was found between drug solution and liposomal dispersion when administered 2 h before allergen challenge. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/08942680152484135
Title:Pulmonary clearance rate of two chemically different forms of inhaled pertechnetate
Authors:P.S. WalkerJ.H. ConwayJ.S. FlemingE. BondessonL. Borgström
Absract:Attempts to image the pulmonary deposition site of radiolabeled aerosols delivered by dry powder inhalers (DPIs) and pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have been limited by the rapid pulmonary clearance of radiolabel. To determine whether aqueous solubility of the radiolabel is a significant factor, the pulmonary clearance rates of two chemically different forms of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc were calculated. A dry powder formulation of terbutaline sulphate was radiolabeled for inhalation by Turbuhaler® (AstraZeneca) using the water-soluble salt sodium pertechnetate and the water-insoluble salt tetraphenylarsonium pertechnetate. A pilot study was conducted during which two control subjects each inhaled the two radiolabeled aerosols on separate days. Intrasubject clearance rates for the two species were very similar. It was therefore concluded that water insolubility of the pertechnetate salt alone was not enough to extend the lung residency time of the radiolabel.

doi:10.1081/DDC-100100991
Title:Use of a novel modified TSI for the evaluation of controlled-release aerosol formulations. I
Authors:J.T. McConvilleN. PatelN. DitchburnM.J. TobynJ.N. StaniforthP. Woodcock
Absract:When considering the development of potential controlled-release pulmonary drug delivery systems, there is at present no standard method available for the assessment of in vitro drug release profiles necessary to understand how the drug might release following deposition in the lungs. For this purpose, the twin-stage impinger (TSI), apparatus A of the BP, has been redesigned and tested. This modified TSI was found capable of discriminating between drug release rates from conventional and different dry powder formulations consisting of model controlled-release excipients, providing information related to (a) drug diffusion properties of controlled-release dry powder blends with different excipient components and (b) the effect of varying drug concentration within a given formulation.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2014.1155
Title:NanoCluster Itraconazole Formulations Provide a Potential Engineered Drug Particle Approach to Generate Effective Dry Powder Aerosols
Authors:W. PornputtapitakN. El-GendyC. Berkland
Absract:Background: Itraconazole (ITZ), a triazole antifungal agent, is a poorly water-soluble drug that is orally administered for treatment of fungal infections such as allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) and invasive aspergillosis (IA). ABPA is relatively well controlled but IA can be fatal, especially in immunosuppressed patients. Aerosolized ITZ delivered to the lung may provide a local treatment and prophylaxis against IA at the primary site of infection in the lungs. Variations of the percent fine particle fraction (FPF), the percent emitted dose, and the physical properties of the aerosol (e.g., crystallinity) can confound consistent delivery. Methods: ITZ NanoClusters were formulated via milling (top-down process) or precipitation (bottom-up process) without using any excipients. Itraconazole formulations (ITZ) were prepared by milling 1 gram of micronized itraconazole in 300 mL of fluid. The suspension was collected at 0.5, 1, and 2 hours milling time. Milled ITZ was compared to ITZ prepared by anti-solvent precipitation and to the stock micronized itraconazole. The aerosolization performance of ITZ formulations was determined using an Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). Results: The physicochemical properties and aerosol performance of different ITZ NanoClusters suggested an optimized wet milling was the preferred process compared to precipitation. ITZ NanoClusters prepared by wet milling showed better aerosol performance compared to micronized ITZ as received and ITZ NanoClusters prepared by precipitation. ITZ NanoClusters prepared by precipitation methods also showed an amorphous state, while ITZ milled in 10% EtOH maintained the crystalline character of ITZ throughout a 2 hour milling time. Conclusions: The aerosol performance of milled ITZ NanoClusters was dramatically improved compared to micronized ITZ as received due to the difference of drug particle structures. ITZ NanoCluster formulations represent a potential engineered drug particle approach for inhalation therapy, providing effective aerosol properties and stability due to the crystalline state of the drug powders.

doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.10.004
Title:Delivery of Inhaled Drugs for Infants and Small Children: A Commentary on Present and Future Needs
Authors:J.B. Fink
Absract:Although the manufacture of inhaled medications is a multibillion dollar industry, virtually no pharmaceutical drug/device combination has been approved for inhalation across the range of pediatric patient ages and sizes. The clinician who treats neonates, infants, or toddlers is often faced with the dilemma of prescribing inhaled medications that may be disease appropriate but have not been approved for use in patients in these age categories. Their use is thus technically "off label," with limited empirical data to guide both dose and device selection. This dilemma requires the prescribing physician to go beyond the limitations of the product label, often without benefit of appropriately designed clinical trials, in an attempt to select safe and effective doses for use with these smallest of patients. The vast majority of drugs approved for inhalation were studied by using aerosol devices designed for older children and adults using a mouthpiece interface, which may not be practical for use in infants and patients aged <4 years. The selection of the most age-appropriate device and interface is critical for the effective administration of the prescribed therapy. In the absence of industry-sponsored clinical trials in neonates, infants, and toddlers, in vitro and in vivo strategies may help guide age-appropriate dosing, device, and interface selection to better inform clinical practice. In this commentary, the challenges in developing and prescribing effective formulations for aerosol delivery across the range of pediatric ages and sizes are explored, with guidance for device and interface selection. Recommendations for future collaborative sharing of in vitro models and age-specific breathing patterns between academic and industry researchers could help regulators and clinicians better understand the impact age and size have on pulmonary drug delivery. © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2004.01.028
Title:Formulation development of inhalation powders for FK888 with carrier lactose using Spinhaler® and its absorption in healthy volunteers
Authors:T. NakateH. YoshidaA. OhikeY. TokunagaR. IbukiY. Kawashima
Absract:(4R)-4-Hydroxy-l-[(l-methyl-lH-indol-3-yl)carbonyl]-L-prolyl-N-benzyl-N- methyl-3-(2-naphthyl)-L-alaninamide (FK888) is a candidate selective NK1 receptor antagonist, and it exhibits poor absorption from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract in healthy volunteers. The objective of this study was to develop an optimized DPI formulation with carrier lactose using a Spinhaler®, and thereby improve the systemic absorption of FK888. The fine particles of FK888 were blended with various carrier lactoses, and in vitro deposition properties were investigated using a twin impinger. The mixture using 100M and 325M lactoses [Sieved lactoses (SLs)] exhibited a higher emitted dose (Em) than 200M, 450M and micronized lactoses [Milled lactoses (MLs)]. The flowability of carrier lactose had an influence on the Em. On the other hand, the respirable particle (RP) fraction in the formulations with MLs was much higher than that of SLs, in spite of the blended ratios of lactose. It was also observed that the mixture of 325M with the micronized lactose particles had the same RP as 200M, although the 325M alone had a low RP. Considering the Em and RP obtained, we chose 200M for FK888 dry powder inhaler (DPI). The proportional absorption was found up to the 12.5% of the FK888 ratio (5 mg as unit dose) for the C @sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC in healthy volunteers. In conclusion, 200M, which has fine lactose particles and a better flowability than other MLs, is an extremely suitable carrier for maximizing the fine particle dose as far as FK888 is concerned. Furthermore, an improvement in the systemic absorption of FK888 was achieved using the dry powder formulations. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/s1773-2247(05)50022-4
Title:Improvement in the variation of inhalation properties of an FK888 dry powder inhaler using an E-haler, by adding coarse lactose in spherical soft agglomerates of fine drug particles, and its absorption in healthy volunteers
Authors:T. NakateH. YoshidaA. OhikeY. TokunagaR. IbukiY. Kawashima
Absract:FK888 is a candidate selective NK1 receptor antagonist that exhibits poor absorption from the gastro-intestinal tract. In our previous study, it was found that pulmonary application was effective in achieving systemic absorption of the drug in healthy volunteers. In this study inhalation powder formulations, which were carrier-free spherical soft agglomerates of FK888 fine particles, were evaluated using an E-haler. A proportional fine particle dose (FPD defined as the dose deposited less than 4.9 μm) was obtained from 10, 20 and 40-mg formulations (10, 20 and 40 mg as FK888, respectively) after discharging into a cascade impactor using an E-haler. However, poorer reproducibility of FPD was observed when five different lots of active ingredient were used in the 40-mg formulation (14.3 ± 2.7 mg for FPD, 35.8 ± 6.7% for the fine particle fraction; FPF defined as a percentage of FPD compared with the nominal dose defined as the quantity of FK888 loaded in a capsule, and a CV of 18.7%). It was found that the BET surface area of the fine drug particles was closely related to the in vitro aerodynamic properties, and the addition of 25% (w/w) coarse lactose (Pharmatose 325M) was very effective in improving the variability (17.7 ± 0.9 mg for FPD, 44.2 ± 2.2% for FPF, and a CV of 4.9%, p < 0.05 compared with the carrier-free 40-mg formulation). It was considered that the higher BET surface area reflected a higher amount of finer drug particles, and the 325M lactose acted as a fixative agent allowing the finer drug particles to adhere to the lactose surface, resulting in a reduced adhesive force between the drug particles. In the formulation containing 325M lactose using an E-haler, an improvement in systemic absorption was also obtained in healthy volunteers.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpx.2021.100074
Title:Formulation development of itraconazole PEGylated nano-lipid carriers for pulmonary aspergillosis using hot-melt extrusion technology
Authors:G. ShadambikarS. MaratheN. JiM. AlmutairiS. BandariF. ZhangM. ChouguleM. Repka
Absract:Pulmonary delivery is a promising alternative for the oral treatment of pulmonary aspergillosis. This study aimed to develop continuous and scalable itraconazole PEGylated nano-lipid carriers (ITZ-PEG-NLC) for inhalation delivery. The feasibility of preparing NLCs utilizing hot-melt extrusion (HME) coupled with probe sonication was investigated. The process parameters for HME and sonication were varied to optimize the formulation. ITZ-PEG-NLC (particle size, 101.20 ± 1.69 nm; polydispersity index, 0.26 ± 0.01) was successfully formulated. The drug entrapment efficiency of ITZ-PEG-NLC was 97.28 ± 0.50%. Transmission electron microscopy was used to characterize the shape of the particles. The developed formulations were evaluated for their aerodynamic properties for pulmonary delivery. The lung deposition of ITZ-PEG-NLC was determined using an Anderson Cascade Impactor and Philips Respironics Sami the Seal Nebulizer Compressor. In vitro cytotoxicity studies were performed using A549 cells. A burst-release pattern was observed in ITZ-PEG-NLC with a drug release of 41.74 ± 1.49% in 60 min. The in vitro aerosolization of the ITZ-PEG-NLC formulation showed a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 3.51 ± 0.28 μm and a geometric standard deviation of 2.44 ± 0.49. These findings indicate that HME technology could be used for the production of continuous scalable ITZ-PEG-NLC.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Inhalable microparticles embedding therapeutic calcium phosphate nanoparticles for heart targeting
Authors:E. QuartaP. ColomboA. AlognaD. CatalucciC. De LucaM. IafiscoF. SonvicoT.D. TetleyR. AudibertV. LaurentF. Buttini
Absract:Introduction: The aim of this work was to develop an innovative nanomedicine consisting in highly respirable microparticulate dry powder (dpCaPs) able to embed and release calcium phosphate nanoparticles (CaPs) loaded with Mimetic Peptide (11 aminoacids, 1326 Da), a therapeutic substance selectively targeting the cytosolic Cavb2 chaperon subunit of the cardiac L-type Calcium Channel Complex (LTCC) restoring cardiac function. The embedded therapeutic nanoparticles, released in deep lung by carrier dissolution upon inhalation, can target the hearth by translocation to pulmonary vein blood. Methods: Spray drying (SD) technique was employed to transform the nanoparticle dispersion in inhalable microparticles. Mannitol as water soluble carrier excipient, was used for microparticle construction. In vitro respirability was assessed in vitro using medium resistance prototype inhaler device from Nemera. Immortalized human alveolar cells TT1 and TT2 and macrophages were exposed to increasing concentrations of microparticles for toxicology investigation. The dry powder formulation was administered in vivo to heart diseased mini pigs. Results: The powder having the ratio CaPs/mannitol 1:4 exhibited the best aerodynamic performance for CaP lung deposition and release (CaPs size 85.4 nm). The EF was >92% and the FPF >80%. Microparticles had a spherical shape, rough surface and very low density. The high extra-FPF (<2 μm) favours CaP deep lung deposition and translocation to the heart. In vitro evaluation found that dpCaPs were not toxic for human lung alveolar epithelial cells and macrophages and did not induce cytokine release. Finally, the dpCaPs pulmonary administered to diseased mini pigs were able to restore normal heart contractility. Conclusion: Inhalation of the highly respirable microparticles embedding CaP nanoparticles loaded with Mimetic Peptide were. effective in delivering mimetic peptide from lung to heart.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2014.1187
Title:Development and Evaluation of Chitosan Microparticles Based Dry Powder Inhalation Formulations of Rifampicin and Rifabutin
Authors:R.V. PaiR.R. JainA.S. BannalikarM.D. Menon
Absract:Background: The lung is the primary entry site and target for Mycobacterium tuberculosis; more than 80% of the cases reported worldwide are of pulmonary tuberculosis. Hence, direct delivery of anti-tubercular drugs to the lung would be beneficial in reducing both, the dose required, as well as the duration of therapy for pulmonary tuberculosis. In the present study, microsphere-based dry powder inhalation systems of the anti-tubercular drugs, rifampicin and rifabutin, were developed and evaluated, with a view to achieve localized and targeted delivery of these drugs to the lung. Methods: The drug-loaded chitosan microparticles were prepared by an ionic gelation method, followed by spray-drying to obtain respirable particles. The microparticles were evaluated for particle size and drug release. The drug-loaded microparticles were then adsorbed onto an inhalable lactose carrier and characterized for in vitro lung deposition on an Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI) followed by in vitro uptake study in U937 human macrophage cell lines. In vivo toxicity of the developed formulations was evaluated using Sprague Dawley rats. Results: Both rifampicin and rifabutin-loaded microparticles had MMAD close to 5 μm and FPF values of 21.46% and 29.97%, respectively. In vitro release study in simulated lung fluid pH 7.4 showed sustained release for 12 hours for rifampicin microparticles and up to 96 hours for rifabutin microparticles, the release being dependent on both swelling of the polymer and solubility of the drugs in the dissolution medium. In vitro uptake studies in U937 human macrophage cell line suggested that microparticles were internalized within the macrophages. In vivo acute toxicity study of the microparticles in Sprague Dawley rats revealed no significant evidence for local adverse effects. Conclusion: Thus, spray-dried microparticles of the anti-tubercular drugs, rifampicin and rifabutin, could prove to be an improved, targeted, and efficient system for treatment of tuberculosis.

doi:10.1089/bio.2015.1338.abstracts
Title:Formulation and characterization of gefitinib loaded chitosan nanoparticles for lung targeting
Authors:N. Venkatesh
Absract:Lung cancer is one of the most prevalent cancer and leading cause of mortality in the developed world. Lung cancer is divided into two types namely small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In particular, non-small lung cancer accounts for approximately 80% of all lung cancer. Intravenous injection of microspheres and inhalants are the possible administration routes for targeting drugs to lungs. However, some studies have shown that microspheres with a particle diameter greater than 5 micrometers blocks the capillaries and leading to chronic obstructive pulmonary emphysema (COPE). On the other hand, frequent inhalation may induce lung fibrosis. Gefitinib, a drug used in treatment of lung cancer, having half-life of 6-49 hours with oral bioavailability of 59%. Hence, our present study is focused on the preparation of nanoparticles of gefitinib, which would be expected to prevent the incidence of COPE by blocking the capillaries and also to reduce the hepatotoxicity and to enhance organ biodistribution. In the present study, gefitinib loaded chitosan nanoparticles were formulated by ionic gelation method. Prior to the formulation, a compatibility study between drug and polymer were assessed by FTIR and DSC studies. These studies indicated that there was no interaction between the drug and polymer. The formulated nanoparticles were characterized for certain parameters such as effect on polymer ratio on drug loading, particle size, zeta potential, polydispersity index, in vitro dissolution study and in vivo bio distribution study. The average size of the nanoparticles was found to be 251 nm, polydispersity index of 0.359 and a zeta potential value of 13.8 mv. The release of the drug from the chitosan nanoparticles was found to be sustained up to 24 hours. The nanoparticles follow first order kinetics obeying fickian diffusion. The organ biodistribution studies were carried out Swiss albino mice. The biodistribution study revealed that the nanoparticles exhibited 1.757 folds increase in drug concentration in lungs as compared to drug in the solution form. Thus, it can be concluded that the nanoparticulated formulation of gefitinib may decrease in dose frequency prolonged therapeutic level, reduction in dose and dose related side effects. Based on body distribution pattern and disposition kinetics, the developed nanoparticles may be suitable for effective targeting of gefitinib to lungs for treating lung cancer effectively.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2.1.53
Title:Propellant-driven metered-dose inhalers for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:H.D.C. Smyth
Absract:The current market for pulmonary drug delivery is at a bottleneck. The therapeutic advantages of inhalation aerosols, and the potential for the lungs as a route for systemically acting drugs, vaccines and gene therapeutic agents, have resulted in a rapid growth of the industry. Alongside this, the environment of inhaler design and formulation has changed markedly in recent years. Environmental concerns over propellants, the commercial success of dry powder inhalers, and the apparent lack of advancement of propellant-driven metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) has led to a less clear future for these devices. This review critically assesses these pressures and also potential opportunities for the pMDI. It is proposed that the future role of pMDIs will be determined by several important forces that can be classified under 'technology development' or 'market climate' categories. Technology development forces will be strengthened by the ability of the industry to have a systematic understanding of mechanisms of spray formation, perform subsequent and continued device and formulation advances, and a focus on all patient groups: particularly paediatric and geriatric populations. The ability to succeed in these areas will be largely determined by the willingness to invest in fundamental research of pMDI technologies. © 2005 Ashley Publications Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.07.007
Title:Dosing challenges in respiratory therapies
Authors:S. YeungD. TrainiD. LewisP.M. Young
Absract:The pulmonary route of administration has been commonly used for local lung conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Recently, with the advent of new technologies available for both formulation and device design, molecules usually delivered at high doses, such as antibiotics and insulin to treat cystic fibrosis (CF) and diabetes, respectively, can now be delivered by inhalation as a dry powder. These molecules are generally delivered in milligrams instead of traditional microgram quantities. High dose delivery is most commonly achieved via dry powder inhalers (DPIs), breath activated devices designed with a formulated powder containing micronized drug with aerodynamic diameters between 1 and 5 µm. The powder formulation may also contain other excipients and/or carrier particles to improve the flowability and aerosol dispersion of the powder. A drawback with high doses is that the formulation contains a great number of fine particles, leading to a greater degree of cohesive forces, producing strongly bound agglomerates. With greater cohesive forces holding fine particles together, higher dispersion forces are needed for efficient de-agglomeration and aerosolisation. This requirement of greater dispersion forces has led to different dry powder formulations and vastly different inhaler designs. The purpose of this review is to evaluate the different formulation types, various DPI devices currently available, and how these affect the aerosolisation process and delivery of high dosed inhalable dry powder formulations to the lungs.

doi:10.1185/030079902125001254
Title:Formoterol delivered via a dry powder inhaler (Aerolizer*): Results from long-term clinical trials in children
Authors:D.S. PearlmanJ. KottakisD. TillG. Della Cioppa
Absract:Over 500 children with asthma, aged 5-12 years, have been treated with formoterol fumarate (Foradil†) delivered via the Aerolizer dry powder inhaler in clinical trials, with treatment periods of up to 15 months. In pivotal double-blind trials, two dose levels, 12 and 24 μg taken twice daily, provided significant benefit in terms of lung function measurements and symptom control (a lower dose of 6 μg twice daily appeared insufficient with this formulation). The higher, 24 μg dose appeared to provide an additional margin of benefit in a subgroup of children with more unstable/severe disease when the results from long-term follow-up (12-15 months) were analysed. Formoterol was shown to have a good safety profile when taken as regular maintenance treatment and when used as rescue medication by patients already receiving formoterol as regular maintenance treatment. In this flexible regimen, with formoterol used for rescue and maintenance, the overall daily intake of formoterol was low, with 96.1% of all treatment days (n = 2452) covered by a total daily dose (regular + rescue) of 48 μg (four doses) or less. There was no increase in the average daily intake of rescue formoterol over time. The clinical efficacy associated with this regimen was maintained overtime and, in the case of morning peak expiratory flow rate, steadily improved over time. The Foradil Aerolizer inhalation system is simple to use and has a low resistance to inspiratory airflow that maximises the patient's control over dosing, while minimizing the risk of under- and overdosing. These features may be especially valuable in a young patient population.

doi:10.1007/s13346-019-00662-x
Title:Biodistribution and histopathology studies of amphotericin B sodium deoxycholate sulfate formulation following intratracheal instillation in rat models
Authors:F. UsmanJ. NopparatI. JavedT. Srichana
Absract:Aerosol inhalation of amphotericin B (AmB) can be a clinically compliant way to administer the drug directly to the pulmonary route for treatment as well as prophylaxis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). We report aerosol formulation of AmB using sodium deoxycholate sulfate (SDCS), a lipid carrier synthesized in-house using natural precursor deoxycholic acid. In vitro toxicity was determined by MTT assay. Biodistribution and histopathology in rats were evaluated in targeted organs including the lungs, kidneys, spleen, and liver. No toxicity was observed when lung and kidney cells treated with AmB-SDCS formulations up to 8 μg/mL and minimal toxicity at higher concentration 16 μg/mL, while the Fungizone®-like formulation induced toxicity to lung and kidney cells with viability decreasing from 86 to 41% and 100 to 49%, respectively, when compared with an equivalent concentration of AmB-SDCS. Renal and hepatic markers were raised for Fungizone®-like formulation–treated rats but not for AmB-SDCS formulations following 7 days of regular dosing by intratracheal instillation. AmB concentrations were highest in the lungs (5.4–8.3 μg/g) which were well above minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of all Aspergillus species. Plasma concentration was also above MIC (> 2 μg/mL) for all AmB-SDCS formulations in comparison with Fungizone®-like formulation. No evidence of abnormal histopathology was observed in the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys for all AmB-SDCS formulations but was observed for the group treated with Fungizone®-like formulation. It is concluded that AmB-SDCS formulations can be efficiently administered via intratracheal instillation with no evidence of toxicity and may find great value in the treatment as well as prophylaxis of IPA through inhalation route.

doi:10.3109/10837450.2012.757782
Title:Passive lung-targeted drug delivery systems via intravenous administration
Authors:Y. WeiL. Zhao
Absract:The treatment of lung diseases including lung cancer and tuberculosis is one of the most challenging problems in clinical practice, because the conventional drug delivery systems cannot deliver drug effectively to the lung, which result in low therapeutic effect. Therefore, lung-targeted drug delivery systems (LTDDS) that can deliver drug to the lung in an effective way to increase drug concentration in lung tissue and reduce drug distribution in other organs and tissues become an ideal strategy to treat lung diseases. The LTDDS mainly include microparticles (microspheres and microencapsules), liposomes and nanoparticles via intravenous administration, and dry powder carriers and nebulized suspensions via pulmonary inhalation. As lungs possess the large absorptive surface area, the low thickness of the epithelial barrier and good blood supply, pulmonary inhalation has received great attention. Intravenous route is the commonly practiced method for administration of larger doses of drugs into the body. Numerous drugs can be delivered directly into general circulation by avoiding their firstpass metabolism and have potential to transport drugs to the lung via intravenous administration. This present article reviews the development, evaluation and application of LTDDS via intravenous administration for the treatment of lung diseases reported in the past decades. © 2014 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1177/0091270003258657
Title:Young and Elderly Type 2 Diabetic Patients Inhaling Insulin with the AERx® Insulin Diabetes Management System: A Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Comparison
Authors:R.R. HenryS. MudaliarN. ChuD. KimD. ArmstrongT.T. DavisB. AnR.R. Reinhardt
Absract:The objective of this study was to compare the pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and safety of inhaled insulin delivered by the AERx® iDMS in young and elderly patients with type 2 diabetes. Twenty-seven young (18-45 years, inclusive) and 28 elderly (≥ 65 years) type 2 diabetic patients were enrolled in this study. A single inhalation of 1.57 mg (45 IU, effect comparable to 6 s.c. units) of regular human insulin was administered to each patient on each of 2 dosing days, and blood samples were drawn up to 360 minutes postdosing to generate the PK/PD curves. AUC@sub_begin(0.360 min)@sub_end and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values of inhaled insulin were comparable between young and elderly subjects (p = 0.476 for AUC@sub_begin(0.360 min)@sub_end and p = 0.414 for C@sub_beginmax@sub_end). However, the elderly group had significantly less glucose reduction, as indicated by plasma glucose AOC@sub_begin(0.360)@sub_end (area over the curve) values (p = 0.011). The intrasubject variability of inhaled insulin using the AERx® iDMS was similar for young and elderly subjects and was similar to what has previously been reported for soluble insulin administered subcutaneously. Inhaled insulin was well tolerated in these patients, and no changes in pulmonary function tests were observed. A single inhalation of insulin using the AERx® iDMS demonstrated comparable insulin PK profiles between the elderly and young type 2 patients but less glucose reduction in the elderly. Based on these results, elderly diabetic patients may need to inhale more insulin than young patients to achieve similar glycemic control. Long-term clinical trials using the AERx® device will be useful to study agerelated differences. © 2003 the American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

doi:10.1378/chest.122.3.930
Title:Evaluation of bronchial constriction in children with cystic fibrosis after inhaling two different preparations of tobramycin
Authors:G.A. AlothmanM.M. AlsaadiB.L. HoS.L. HoA. DupuisM. CoreyA.L. Coates
Absract:Objectives: This randomized, double-blind, cross-over study evaluated the risk of bronchoconstriction with two preparations of inhaled tobramycin in children with cystic fibrosis (CF) infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa with and without airway hyperreactivity. Design: Of 19 children with CF (age range, 7 to 16 years) with mild-to-moderate pulmonary disease, 10 children were at high risk (HR) for bronchospasm (family history of asthma and previous response to bronchodilators) and 9 children were at low risk (LR) for bronchospasm (no family history of asthma or previous response to bronchodilators). Two solutions of tobramycin were administered: (1) 80 mg in a 2-mL vial diluted with 2 mL of saline solution containing the preservatives phenol and bisulfites (IV preparation); and (2) 300 mg in a preservative-free preparation in a 5-mL solution. Following a bronchodilator-free period of 12 h, the patients inhaled either one or the other preparation in random order on two different occasions, 2 weeks apart. Results: Prechallenge and postchallenge results for the LR group showed a percentage of fall in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end (ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) of 12 ± 9% (mean ± SD) for the IV preparation, compared to 4 ± 5% for the preservative-free preparation (p = 0.046). An ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of > 10% was seen in six of nine patients for the IV preparation and in one of nine patients for preservative-free preparation. For the HR group, the ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was 17 ± 13% for the IV-preparation group, compared to 16 ± 12% for the preservative-free group (p = 0.4). In this group, equal numbers of patients (8 of 10 patients) had an ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end > 10% after inhaling each preparation. The largest ΔFEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was 44% (HR group with the preservative-free preparation that forced the early termination of inhalation). Conclusions: Both preparations caused significant bronchoconstriction in the HR group, and the preservative-containing IV preparation caused more bronchospasm in LR group than the preservative-free solution. Heightened airway reactivity in children with CF places them at risk of bronchospasm from inhalation therapy.

doi:10.2174/187221309789257414
Title:Recent development of drug delivery systems for the treatment of asthma and related disorders
Authors:H. Takizawa
Absract:It is well established that airway inflammatory processes are pivotal as the pathological features of asthma. Prominent infiltration of eosinophils and Th2 lymphocytes is a hallmark of the allergic inflammation, and inhaled corticosteroids markedly suppress such inflammatory changes, resulting in clinical beneficial effects. Aerosol delivery of anti-asthma drugs such as corticosteroids is ideal from the standpoint of maximizing local effects in the lung as well as minimizing systemic side effects compared with oral therapy. The 1987 Montreal protocol banned chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellant in pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs), which has been replaced with hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellant. The aerodynamic diameters of HFA are much smaller than those of CFC, suggesting a greater distribution in peripheral airways. New types of dry powder inhalers (DPIs) and nebulizers, that do not use propellants, also have been introduced. Performance of each drug delivery device depends on a variety of factors including the device type, particle size and distribution, the product formulation and patient-related factors. Therefore, drug delivery can differ even when the same drug is delivered via an HFA pMDI, a CFC pMDI, a DPI or a nebulizer. New and advanced devices can be helpful to maximize the advantages of these modes of drug delivery, and patents of novel invention of inhalation devices are described. © 2009 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200544030-00004
Title:Respirable microspheres for inhalation: The potential of manipulating pulmonary disposition for improved therapeutic efficacy
Authors:M. SakagamiP.R. Byron
Absract:Several particle engineering technologies have recently emerged, which have enabled inhaled microspheres to seek to manipulate pulmonary biopharmaceuticals, and to improve therapeutic efficacy for both local and systemic treatments. These microspheres may be designed to sustain drug release, to prolong lung retention, to achieve drug targeting and/or to enhance drug absorption and thereby, to seek the potentials of reducing dosing frequency and/or drug dose, while maintaining therapeutic efficacy and/or reducing adverse effects. While product development is still in process, in many cases, considerable therapeutic benefits and/or new therapeutic opportunities can be envisaged. 'Proof-of-concept' results are now available for various drug classes including β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonists, corticosteroids, antimycobacterial antibacterials, estradiol and therapeutic macromolecules such as insulin. Nevertheless, their development success must overcome several critical and unique challenges including toxicological evaluations of microsphere materials, and, clearly, successful products should meet the needs of the patient and the market place. Unfortunately, such issues have not always been addressed or examined adequately in the current studies, and thus we may anticipate paradigm shifts in the research of several groups seeking to develop products with improved therapeutic profiles. Nevertheless, it seems likely that improved inhalation products, with greater therapeutic efficacy and reduced adverse effects, will result from next-generation respirable microspheres. These may be expected to contain drugs intended for both local and systemic activity. © 2005 Adls Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1177/0333102419859835
Title:Comparison of early plasma exposure to dhe by nasal, oral inhalation, or intravenous administration
Authors:K.H. SatterlyS.B. ShrewsburyJ. Hoekman
Absract:Objective: To compare plasma exposure in the first two hours following administration of INP104 (dihydroergotamine mesylate [DHE] by Precision Olfactory Delivery [POD®]), Migranal® Nasal Spray, D.H.E. 45® (IV) or MAP0004 (oral inhalation) using data obtained from the STOP 101 study and literature reports. IV DHE is a reliable and effective treatment for migraine approved in the US since 1946. DHE plasma exposure in the first 2 hours is critical to migraine pain relief, justifying an emphasis on AUC@sub_begin0-2hr@sub_end when assessing novel DHE products. Although C@sub_beginmax@sub_end is also important for efficacy, research suggests that the high C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of IV administration may predict a higher rate of adverse events. INP104, a novel drug-device combination product in Phase 3 clinical development, targets delivery of a liquid DHE formulation to the upper nasal cavity using the POD device. Methods: PK results from STOP 101, a Phase 1, single dose, safety, tolerability, and bioavailability study in healthy subjects who received INP104 (1.45 mg), Migranal (2 mg), or D.H.E. 45 (IV) (1 mg) in a 3-way, 3-period crossover were compared. Trends of DHE PK, efficacy, and adverse events related to AUC@sub_begin0-2hr@sub_end and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end reported in the literature were reviewed and are described. Results: AUC@sub_begin0-2hr@sub_end following administration of INP104, Migranal, and D.H.E. 45 (IV) was 1,603, 387.5, and 3,022 hr∗pg/mL, respectively, in the STOP 101 trial. C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values were highest following IV DHE (14,190 pg/mL), then INP104 (1,301 pg/mL) and Migranal (299.6 pg/mL). A literature report of MAP0004 (1 mg), clinically developed but never marketed due to CMC challenges, states an AUC0- 2hr value of 1,447 hr∗pg/mL. Another MAP0004 literature report describes onset of pain relief in migraineurs as early as 10 minutes and only 1 incidence of nausea. Lastly, a review of the literature suggests that the probability of nausea is <2% when plasma DHE C@sub_beginmax@sub_end is ≤5,000 pg/mL, whereas at 13,400 pg/mL, the probability of nausea is ≥50%. Conclusion: INP104 administration results in high plasma exposure to DHE in the first 2 hours, a goal for acute migraine products to enable rapid and sustained pain relief, as validated by the MAP0004 clinical program. Further, the significant reduction in C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of DHE following INP104 treatment, relative to IV, may lead to more favorable tolerability of INP104.

doi:10.1136/ejhpharm-2019-eahpconf.226
Title:Inhaled colistin as chronic suppressor therapy in patients with bronchiectasias with non-cystic fibrosis
Authors:G. Arrufat GoterrisF. Company BezaresA. Oliver NogueraM. Vilanova Bolto
Absract:Background Patients with non-cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchiectasis (BQ) are chronically colonised and infected by bacterial pathogens. The use of inhaled antibiotics in these patients is an increasingly common practice. Purpose To describe the use of inhaled colistin in patients with non-CF BQ. Material and methods A retrospective descriptive study in the use of inhaled colistin in non-CF BQ. Adult patients who started treatment between January 2014 to December 2017 were included. The follow-up lasted until April 2018. Recorded variables were: demographic (age, sex, respiratory history), microbiological (culture at the beginning of treatment, isolated microorganisms and sensitivity), treatment (eradication (yes/no), initial dose, dosage changes or interruptions and cause, concomitant antibiotic treatment) and follow- up (negativisation during therapy, time until culture negativisation). Results Thirty-three patients with non-CF BQ were included, 24 men and nine women, with a median age of 77 years (51-90). Twenty-nine had a history of pulmonary disease: 18 moderate or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, five pneumonias, two chronic bronchitis and four others. All patients except one started treatment after sputum culture. The most frequently isolated microorganism was Pseudomonas aeruginosa, whose sensitivity was: 22 multisensitive, three multidrug-resistant (MDR) and six extremely drug-resistant (XDR). Achromobacter xylosoxidans MDR was isolated in two samples and one was negative. Fifteen performed eradication treatment, all with quinolones: ciprofloxacin (13), levofloxacin (one) and levofloxacin plus imipenem (one). The most common starting dose was 1 MUI colistin/ 12 hour. Nine patients had concomitant treatment with azithromycin three times a week. During the treatment, 15 patients maintained the same dosage, in 10 patients it was modified (three to alternate months, four increased the dose due to lack of effectiveness and three changed to the inhalation exclusive colistin formulation) and in eight it was interrupted (three due to adverse effects, two due to improvement of symptoms, one eradication and two unknown). The sputum culture of 15 patients became negative during suppressive therapy, with an average time to negativisation of 4 months (1-15 months). Twelve remained on treatment with inhalated colistin despite having negative sputum cultures. Conclusion The great heterogeneity in the prescription of inhaled colistin makes it necessary to standardise its use and to carry out a treatment protocol in collaboration with the pneumology department.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.04.034
Title:Influence of excipients on physical and aerosolization stability of spray dried high-dose powder formulations for inhalation
Authors:N. ShettyH. ParkD. ZemlyanovS. MangalS. BhujbalQ.T. Zhou
Absract:The aim of this study is to investigate the influence of excipients on physical and aerosolization stability of spray dried Ciprofloxacin dry powder inhaler formulations. The model drug, Ciprofloxacin hydrochloride, was co-spray dried with excipients such as disaccharides (sucrose, lactose, trehalose), mannitol and L-leucine. The spray dried samples were stored at two different relative humidity (RH) conditions of: (1) 20% and (2) 55% RH at 20 °C. Ciprofloxacin co-spray dried with disaccharides and L-leucine in the mass ratio of 1:1 demonstrated an increase in fine particle fraction (FPF) as compared with the spray dried Ciprofloxacin alone when stored at 20% RH. However, deterioration in FPF of Ciprofloxacin co-spray dried with disaccharide and mannitol was observed upon storage at 55% RH as compared to the corresponding formulations stored at 20% RH due to particle agglomeration. Whereas, 10% and 50% w/w L-leucine in the formulation showed no change in aerosol performance (FPF of 71.1 ± 3.5% and 79.5 ± 3.1%, respectively) when stored at 55% RH for 10 days as compared to 20% RH (FPF of 68.1 ± 0.3% and 73.6 ± 7.1%, respectively). L-Leucine demonstrated aerosolization stability by alleviating crystallization of Ciprofloxacin to some extent and preventing significant change in particle morphology. L-Leucine is well-recognized as aerosolization enhancer; our study has shown L-leucine is also a physical and aerosolization stabilizer for spray dried Ciprofloxacin DPI formulations. Such stability enhancing activities were attributed to the enrichment of L-leucine on the particle surface as confirmed by XPS data, and intermolecular interactions between L-leucine and Ciprofloxacin as measured by FT-IR.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.05.006
Title:Formulation of pH responsive peptides as inhalable dry powders for pulmonary delivery of nucleic acids
Authors:W. LiangP.C.L. KwokM.Y.T. ChowP. TangA.J. MasonH.-K. ChanJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Nucleic acids have the potential to be used as therapies or vaccines for many different types of disease, but delivery remains the most significant challenge to their clinical adoption. pH responsive peptides containing either histidine or derivatives of 2,3-diaminopropionic acid (Dap) can mediate effective DNA transfection in lung epithelial cells with the latter remaining effective even in the presence of lung surfactant containing bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), making this class of peptides attractive candidates for delivering nucleic acids to lung tissues. To further assess the suitability of pH responsive peptides for pulmonary delivery by inhalation, dry powder formulations of pH responsive peptides and plasmid DNA, with mannitol as carrier, were produced by either spray drying (SD) or spray freeze drying (SFD). The properties of the two types of powders were characterised and compared using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), next generation impactor (NGI), gel retardation and in vitro transfection via a twin stage impinger (TSI) following aerosolisation by a dry powder inhaler (Osmohaler™). Although the aerodynamic performance and transfection efficacy of both powders were good, the overall performance revealed SD powders to have a number of advantages over SFD powders and are the more effective formulation with potential for efficient nucleic acid delivery through inhalation.© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/jps.21078
Title:Trileucine improves aerosol performance and stability of spray-dried powders for inhalation
Authors:D. Lechuga-BallesterosC. CharanC.L.M. StultsC.L. StevensonD.P. MillerR. VehringV. TepM.-C. Kuo
Absract:For particles to be useful medicinal aerosols, not only their aerodynamic diameter has to be on the order of a few micrometers but also they have to be chemically and physically stable. Manufacture of respirable particles is a technical challenge because as particles are reduced in size by conventional milling techniques, their cohesiveness greatly increases and physical and chemical stability is often compromised by the formation of amorphous material. In the present study, we describe the use of trileucine for the preparation of dry powders suitable for inhalation via spray drying of a wide range of drugs (i.e., asthma therapeutics such as albuterol and cromolyn, and anti-infectives such as netilmicin and gentamicin, as well as therapeutic proteins and peptides such as human growth hormone and salmon calcitonin). The glass transition of spray-dried trileucine is dependent on the pH and can be correlated with the proportion of the anion, cation, and zwitterion concentration in solution. Trileucine glass transition is relatively high (≈104°C) enabling long-term room temperature stability. The solubility of trileucine is dependent on the pH and is lowest at neutral pH (≈6.8 mg/mL). Trileucine's low aqueous solubility enables the formation of low-density corrugated particles and promotes the formation of trileucine coated spray-dried particles, resulting in superior aerosol performance. Trileucine is surface active and promotes the formation of spray-dried powders with a reduced cohesiveness as demonstrated by a decrease in the measured surface energy which correlates with an observed improvement in aerosol performance. Additionally, trileucine competes with the protein on the air/water interface resulting in an additional depression of surface tension in solution which correlates with a decreased denaturation and aggregation in the solid state. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1002/adtp.202100073
Title:Impact of Crystalline and Amorphous Matrices on Successful Spray Drying of siRNA Polyplexes for Inhalation of Nano-in-Microparticles
Authors:T.W.M. KeilC. ZimmermannD. BaldassiF. AdamsW. FriessA. MehtaO.M. Merkel
Absract:To develop stable and inhalable dry powder formulations with long shelf life, polyplexes consisting of siRNA and a polyethylenimine (PEI)-based block copolymer in presence of mannitol or trehalose are spray dried. The effect of inlet (T-In) and outlet (T-Out) temperature on the recovery of siRNA and adsorption effects within the tubing material are investigated. Choosing a low abrasion silicon tubing prevented siRNA loss due to adsorption. Mannitol and trehalose formulations preserved siRNA integrity regardless of excipient concentration and temperature at T-Out below the siRNA melting temperature. Trehalose formulations allowed full siRNA recovery whereas mannitol formulations resulted in spray drying induced losses of ≈20% siRNA and of 50–60% polymer. Mannitol formulations showed optimal aerodynamic characteristics as confirmed by next generation impaction analysis based upon siRNA content. All spray dried formulations resulted in green fluorescent protein (GFP) silencing comparable or better than freshly prepared polyplexes. To test if the observed results could be transferred, formulations of siRNA and transferrin-PEI conjugates are spray dried, characterized, and used to transfect primary human T cells ex vivo. Results confirmed successful silencing of the transcription factor GATA3 in primary CD4@sup_begin+@sup_end T cells with spray dried formulations as a potential treatment for severe asthma.

doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2019.04.008
Title:Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of a New Formulation of Nemiralisib Administered via a Dry Powder Inhaler to Healthy Individuals
Authors:R. WilsonA. TempletonC. LeemereiseR. EamesE. Banham-HallE.M. HesselA. Cahn
Absract:Purpose: Nemiralisib, a phosphoinositide 3-kinase δ inhibitor, is being investigated as an immunomodulatory agent with anti-inflammatory properties in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. This study evaluated the pharmacokinetic (PK) properties and safety of a new formulation of nemiralisib that contains 0.4% magnesium stearate. Methods: In this randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study, healthy individuals received a single dose of 500 or 750 μg of nemiralisib administered via the Ellipta dry powder inhaler (DPI) (n = 6 in each treatment group). Aerodynamic particle size distribution (APSD) data comparing previous and new formulations were available before the study. Serial PK analyses for plasma exposure and safety assessments were performed during the first 24 h after dosing, with follow-up measurements on days 3 and 6 in clinic. Findings: APSD had increases of approximately 6-fold and 2-fold in very fine particle mass and fine particle mass over the previous (Diskus) formulation. In humans, systemic exposure (AUC) was greater after inhalation of 750 versus 500 μg of nemiralisib (AUC@sub_begin0–t@sub_end: 17,200 h∙pg/mL; 95% CI, 10,900–27,200 h∙pg/mL and 13,100; 95% CI, 8130–21,000 h∙pg/mL, respectively). A low frequency of individual adverse events and no serious adverse events were reported after both doses. Implications: After single-dose inhalation of 500 and 750 μg of nemiralisib from the Ellipta DPI in healthy individuals, plasma PK data were well defined, and as predicted based on previous PK and APSD data, exposure was increased with the new formulation. Nemiralisib was well tolerated with no new safety issues identified. These data supported progression of nemiralisib to a Phase IIb study in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03189589.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2013.1080
Title:Overcoming dose limitations using the orbital@sup_begin®@sup_end multi-breath dry powder inhaler
Authors:P.M. YoungJ. CrapperG. PhilipsK. SharmaH.-K. ChanD. Traini
Absract:Purpose: A new approach to delivering high doses of dry powder medicaments to the lung is presented. The Orbital@sup_begin®@sup_end dry powder device is designed to deliver high doses of drugs to the respiratory tract in a single dosing unit, via multiple inhalation maneuvers, overcoming the need to prime or insert multiple capsules. Methods: The Orbital was tested in its prototype configuration and compared with a conventional RS01 capsule device. Three formulations were evaluated: 200mg of spray-dried ciprofloxacin formulation for respiratory infection, 200mg of spray-dried mannitol formulation for mucus clearance, and 100, 200, and 400mg of co-spray-dried 1:8 formulations containing ciprofloxacin and mannitol as combination therapy. The systems were evaluated in terms of physicochemical properties and tested using a multistage liquid impinger at 60 L/min. Emptying rates were evaluated, and the aerosolization performance compared with 10 capsules used sequentially in the RS01. Results and Discussion: The systems were different in terms of morphology, thermal response, moisture sorption, and stability; however, they had similar sizes when measured by laser diffraction, making them suitable for comparison in the Orbital and RS01 devices. The aerosolization performance from the Orbital device and RS01 was dependent on the formulation type; however, the fine particle fraction (FPF) produced by the Orbital device was higher than that by the RS01. The FPFs for ciprofloxacin, mannitol, and co-spray-dried formulation were 67.1±1.8, 47.1±2.2, and 42.0±1.8, respectively. For the Orbital, 90% of the loaded dose was delivered within 10 inhalation maneuvers, with the profile being dependent on the formulation type. Conclusion: The Orbital provides a means of delivering high doses of medicine to the respiratory tract through multiple breath maneuvers after a single actuation. This approach will allow the delivery of a wide range of high-payload formulations (>100mg) for the treatment of a variety of lung disorders. To date, no such passive device exists that meets these crucial criteria.© Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1080/03639040600712862
Title:Formulation and evaluation of insulin dry powder for inhalation
Authors:T. Mahesh KumarA. Misra
Absract:Purpose. Dry powder formulation of insulin for pulmonary administration was prepared to obtain increased drug deposition in the alveolar absorptive region. The deposition was studied by investigating the dispersion and deaggregation of insulin from the carrier lactose using an Andersen cascade impactor and twin stage impinger. The subsequent absorption following the deposition was studied by in vivo method. Methods. Insulin in solution with absorption promoters was lyophilized. The powder was incorporated with lactose of different grades and their combinations as carriers to deliver using an inhaler device. Solid-state characteristics of the carrier as well as the drug powder were assessed by particle size and distribution measurement. The flow properties such as moisture content, powder density, angle of repose, and carr's compressibility index of the powder mixture were determined. The aerosol behavior of the powder was studied by dispersion using rotahaler© connected to a twin-stage impinger (TSI) and an eight-stage Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) operating at different flow rates of 30-90 l/min. The in vivo performance was studied by deliverance to the respiratory tract of guinea pigs. The intratracheal bioavailability with respective to intravenous route was calculated by measuring the blood glucose reduction. Results . The coarser particles of lactose in fractions of carrier containing a wide particle size distribution impacted in the preseperator of cascade impactor, and only the particle less than 10 μm size entered stage 0-stage 7. Formulation containing 1:1 mixture of Respitose ML006 (62%<50 μm) and Respitose ML003 (37.8%<50 μm) as carrier imparts well deaggregation of insulin, and higher deposition leads to 52.3% of fine particle fraction at 60 Lit/min and in vivo bioavailability of 82%. Conclusions. Insulin formulations containing 1:1 mixture of Respitose ML006 and Respitose ML003 as carrier can impart deeper deposition of drug particles and cause higher bioavailability. This suggests that carrier used in the formulation influenced the amount of insulin deposition in the alveolar region of the lung. Hence, it was concluded that the availability of insulin for systemic absorption depends on the particle size of the drug as well as the carrier lactose. Copyright © Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2021.11.002
Title:A respirable HPV-L2 dry-powder vaccine with GLA as amphiphilic lubricant and immune-adjuvant
Authors:I. RossiG. SpagnoliF. ButtiniF. SonvicoF. StellariD. CavazziniQ. ChenM. MüllerA. BolchiS. OttonelloR. Bettini
Absract:Vaccines not requiring cold-chain storage/distribution and suitable for needle-free delivery are urgently needed. Pulmonary administration is one of the most promising non-parenteral routes for vaccine delivery. Through a multi-component excipient and spray-drying approach, we engineered highly respirable dry-powder vaccine particles containing a three-fold repeated peptide epitope derived from human papillomavirus (HPV16) minor capsid protein L2 displayed on Pyrococcus furious thioredoxin as antigen. A key feature of our engineering approach was the use of the amphiphilic endotoxin derivative glucopyranosyl lipid A (GLA) as both a coating agent enhancing particle de-aggregation and respirability as well as a built-in immune-adjuvant. Following an extensive characterization of the in vitro aerodynamic performance, lung deposition was verified in vivo by intratracheal administration in mice of a vaccine powder containing a fluorescently labeled derivative of the antigen. This was followed by a short-term immunization study that highlighted the ability of the GLA-adjuvanted vaccine powder to induce an anti-L2 systemic immune response comparable to (or even better than) that of the subcutaneously administered liquid-form vaccine. Despite the very short-term immunization conditions employed for this preliminary vaccination experiment, the intratracheally administered dry-powder, but not the subcutaneously injected liquid-state, vaccine induced consistent HPV neutralizing responses. Overall, the present data provide proof-of-concept validation of a new formulation design to produce a dry-powder vaccine that may be easily transferred to other antigens.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.7b00846
Title:New Folate-Grafted Chitosan Derivative to Improve Delivery of Paclitaxel-Loaded Solid Lipid Nanoparticles for Lung Tumor Therapy by Inhalation
Authors:R. RosièreM. Van WoenselM. GelbckeV. MathieuJ. HecqT. MathivetM. VermeerschP. Van AntwerpenK. AmighiN. Wauthoz
Absract:Inhaled chemotherapy for the treatment of lung tumors requires that drug delivery systems improve selectivity for cancer cells and tumor penetration and allow sufficient lung residence. To this end, we developed solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN) with modified surface properties. We successfully synthesized a new folate-grafted copolymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and chitosan, F-PEG-HTCC, with a PEG-graft ratio of 7% and a molecular weight range of 211-250 kDa. F-PEG-HTCC-coated, paclitaxel-loaded SLN were prepared with an encapsulation efficiency, mean diameter, and zeta potential of about 100%, 250 nm, and +32 mV, respectively. The coated SLN entered folate receptor (FR)-expressing HeLa and M109-HiFR cells in vitro and M109 tumors in vivo after pulmonary delivery. The coated SLN significantly decreased the in vitro half-maximum inhibitory concentrations of paclitaxel in M109-HiFR cells (60 vs 340 nM, respectively). We demonstrated that FR was involved in these improvements, especially in M109-HiFR cells. After pulmonary delivery in vivo, the coated SLN had a favorable pharmacokinetic profile, with pulmonary exposure to paclitaxel prolonged to up to 6 h and limited systemic distribution. Our preclinical findings therefore demonstrated the positive impact of the coated SLN on the delivery of paclitaxel by inhalation.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2016.07.014
Title:In vitro evaluation of novel inhalable dry powders consisting of thioridazine and rifapentine for rapid tuberculosis treatment
Authors:T. ParumasivamJ.G.Y. ChanA. PangD.H. QuanJ.A. TriccasW.J. BrittonH.K. Chan
Absract:Thioridazine is an orally administered antipsychotic drug with potential for treatment of drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB). However, drug-induced adverse cardiac effects have been reported when thioridazine was used at an efficacious oral dose of 200 mg/day to treat TB. Pulmonary delivery of thioridazine could be a rational approach to reduce dose-related side effects while enabling high drug concentrations at the primary site of infection. The present study compares in vitro aerosol performance, storage stability, and in vitro antimicrobial activity and cytotoxicity of two inhalable powders composed of thioridazine and a first-line anti-TB drug, rifapentine. Formulation 1 is a combination of amorphous thioridazine and crystalline rifapentine, while Formulation 2 consisted of both drugs as amorphous forms. Both thioridazine-rifapentine formulations were found suitable for inhalation with a total fine particle fraction (<5 μm) of 68–76%. The two powders had similar MIC@sub_begin90@sub_end to rifapentine alone, being 0.000625 μg/mL and 0.005 μg/ml against Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Ra and M. tuberculosis H37Rv, respectively. In contrast, thioridazine alone had a MIC@sub_begin90@sub_end of 12.5 μg/mL and 500 μg/mL, against M. tuberculosis H37Ra and M. tuberculosis H37Rv, respectively, demonstrating no synergistic anti-TB activity. However, thioridazine and rifapentine in a ratio of 1:3 enhanced the killing of M. tuberculosis H37Ra within the human monocyte-derived macrophages (THP-1) compared to the single drug treatments. Both powders showed an acceptable half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC@sub_begin50@sub_end) of 31.25 μg/mL on both THP-1 and human lung epithelial (A549) cells. However, Formulation 1 showed greater chemical stability than Formulation 2 after three months of storage under low humidity (vacuum) at 20 ± 3 °C. In conclusion, we have demonstrated a novel inhalable powder consisted of amorphous thioridazine and crystalline rifapentine (Formulation 1) with a good aerosol performance, potent anti-TB activity and storage stability, which deserves further in vivo investigations.

doi:10.1034/j.1399-3003.2000.16a29.x
Title:Scintigraphic comparison of budesonide deposition from two dry powder inhalers
Authors:S.P. NewmanG.R. PitcairnP.H. HirstR.E. BaconE. O'KeefeM. ReinersR. Hermann
Absract:Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), used in metered dose inhalers (MDIs), have been identified as being deleterious to the environment leading to a ban on their production. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are a widely used alternative to MDIs. One disadvantage of DPIs is that in vivo lung deposition can be influenced by the patient's inspiratory flow rate. The ASTA Medica multi-dose dry powder inhaler (AM-MDPI) has been designed to offer low resistance on inhalation, so that asthmatic patients can achieve inhaled flow rates of ~90 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The aim of the study was to evaluate the in vivo deposition of budesonide from the AM-MDPI at different flow rates and to compare this with delivery from a Turbuhaler DPI at a high flow rate. The study was a scintigraphic, randomized, crossover study in which 13 healthy volunteers inhaled a single 200 μg dose of radiolabelled budesonide on four separate occasions with a minimum 44-h washout period between dosings. At the lowest flow rate of 54 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end, comparable to that for the Turbuhaler (58 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end), a similar percentage of the metered dose was delivered to the lung (AM-MDPI median 19.9%; Turbuhaler median 21.4%). At high flow rate (peak inspiratory flow rate 99 L-min@sup_begin-1@sup_end) the AM-MDPI delivered significantly more drug to the lung (median 32.1% of metered dose) than at 65 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end or 54 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end (median 25.0% and 19.9% of metered dose, respectively), thus demonstrating flow rate dependence. The pattern of regional lung deposition from the AM-MDPI was similar for all three inhalation manoeuvres. It was concluded that the ASTA Medica multi-dose dry powder inhaler achieves at least as much deposition of budesonide in the lungs as a Turbuhaler when used at similar inspiratory flow rates. (C)ERS Journals Ltd 2000.

doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2018.05.136
Title:A review of dihydroxyacetone
Authors:T. BraunbergerL.M. KatzN. SadriehH.W. Lim
Absract:Introduction: Recently the sunless tanning industry has experienced rapid growth due to public education on the dangers of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) on the skin and improvements in sunless tanning products. Dihydroxyacetone (DHA) is a 3-carbon sugar approved as a color additive by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and found in sunless tanning products for external use. It reacts with amino acids in the stratum corneum to impart a tanned color to the skin. Formulations typically contain 3% to 5% DHA and can be sprayed on at home or applied as a cream or lotion. DHA has been used in tanning booths and airbrushed by technicians, which is beyond the scope of approval for the color additive. We review the literature on DHA including the published safety data, the current regulations on its use, its clinical utility, and the possible photoprotective properties of this product. Methods and results: We reviewed published in vivo and in vitro studies where DHA had been used. Clinical safety investigations were few in number with limited sample sizes. DHA is approved by the FDA as a color additive in sunless tanners for external application, not including the mucous membranes of the lips. The FDA cautions tanning booth customers against unwanted DHA exposure, recommending that customers shield their eyes, lips, and mucous membranes and refrain from ingestion or inhalation of DHA. While the FDA regulates spray tanning products, state and local health authorities regulate the tanning booth. Despite reports of very modest photoprotective effects (SPF 1-3), DHA is not a sunscreen, and as such, it cannot provide any protection from exposure to the sun’s UVR. Literature reports indicate that DHA has been used as camouflage for vitiligo patients and as an adjunct to psoralen-ultraviolet A therapy in psoriasis. While not indicated for the treatment of fungal infections, DHA has also demonstrated fungicidal properties. Reported side-effects included xanthotrichia and allergic contact dermatitis. Conclusion: DHA is an FDA-approved color additive used in sunless tanners. The literature shows that it has a good safety profile, with no to minimal photoprotective property, as would be expected, since DHA is not a sunscreen ingredient. With its wide-spread use, additional studies on its safety, especially on its potential effects upon inhalation, are warranted.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0757
Title:Drug transport across pulmonary epithelial cell monolayers: Effects of particle size, apical liquid volume, and deposition technique
Authors:M. BurH. HuwerL. MuysC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Background: Pulmonary cell cultures are increasingly used to predict in vivo drug absorption after inhalation, similar to intestinal cell culture models that have already been well established to predict oral drug absorption. In contrast to the intestinal barrier, however, the so-called air-blood barrier of the lung is covered only with a thin film of liquid, on which the aerosol particles are deposited. The aim of this study was to investigate the relevance of this apical liquid film on the drug absorption rate when deposited as a dry powder formulation on pulmonary epithelial cells in vitro. Methods: Budesonide and salbutamol sulfate were chosen as model drugs, and for each drug three generic aerosol powder formulations were used. Filter-grown monolayers of the human bronchial epithelial cell line Calu-3 were used as a model, using various volumes of apical liquid. Results and Conclusions: Although proven to be bioequivalent in vivo for each of the two drugs, the generic dry powder fomulations showed strikingly different epithelial transport rates in vitro, depending on the amount of apical liquid and the deposition technique, and suggesting that the dissolution of the aerosol particles in the apical liquid volume was rate limiting for the overall absorption rate. However, we found that the absorption rates of the formulations were similar after aerosolization and deposition in a multistage liquid impinger, which simulates more realistically the detachment of the drug crystals from the carrier lactose and their aerodynamic particle size-dependent deposition in the respiratory tract following inhalation from a dry powder inhaler. These data demonstrate the need for improved in vitro test systems to allow deposition of aerosol particles on the air-liquid interface cultivated cell monolayers by simultaneously taking into account aerodynamic properties. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1089/dia.2005.7.896
Title:EXUBERA®: Pharmaceutical development of a novel product for pulmonary delivery of insulin
Authors:S. WhiteD.B. BennettS. CheuP.W. ConleyD.B. GuzekS. GrayJ. HowardR. MalcolmsonJ.M. ParkerP. RobertsN. SadrzadehJ.D. SchumacherS. SeshadriG.W. SluggettC.L. StevensonN.J. Harper
Absract:Development of a product for pulmonary delivery of insulin presented significant technology challenges for this first-in-class pharmaceutical product. These included developing (a) a chemically stabilized protein, (b) a dry powder formulation exhibiting required aerosol physical characteristics, (c) low-dose powder filling and packaging technology, and (d) a mechanical device for powder dispersal and reliable dosing to the patient. The insulin drug is formulated using a novel excipient combination to create a powder with a high glass transition temperature (T@sub_beging@sub_end). The high T@sub_beging@sub_end minimizes insulin mobility (thus reactivity), enabling ambient storage conditions. The formulation composition results in minimal hygroscopicity, where customized packaging produced product ruggedness to humidity. The formulated insulin powder is manufactured by spray-drying. This technology was further engineered to produce the desired reproducible powder characteristics with tight control over particle size and moisture content. A solution step prior to drying assures homogeneity and minimizes dependence on the physical form of the components. Novel low-dose filling and packaging technology reproducibly meters milligram quantities of microfine powder to meet stringent quality requirements for dose control. The technology for accurate, uniform, high-throughput metering of drug powders allows for automation and is scaleable for commercial operations. Finally, the mechanical device design provides powder deagglomeration and dispersion processes in a reusable dry powder inhaler with unique characteristics. The device was designed to rely on patient-generated compressed air as the energy source. A sonic discharge of air through the novel Transjector reproducibly extracts, deagglomerates, and disperses the inhalation powder. A clear holding (spacer-type) chamber allows for patient feedback via dose visualization, and separates powder dispersal from the inspiratory effort. The EXUBERA® [Pfizer (New York, NY) and sanofi-aventis (Paris, France)] product provides insulin into the bloodstream with similar reproducibly and effectiveness as subcutaneous injections. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2019.101416
Title:Influence of modified induction port, modified DUSA assembly and device air-inlet geometry on the aerosolization pattern of a dry powder inhaler
Authors:P.P. MehtaS.S. KadamA.P. Pawar
Absract:The objective of the present investigation was to study the effect of inhaler air-inlet size, induction port (IP) geometry and modified dose unit sampling apparatus (DUSA) on the aerodynamic behavior of fluticasone propionate (FP) dry powder inhaler (DPI). The physicochemical properties of FP and inhalation grade lactose particles, such as particle size distribution, moisture content and surface morphology were assessed while developed FP DPI was assessed using energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometry. Afterward, the aerodynamic outcome of the FP DPI was evaluated by using Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) equipped with USP modified IP and inhaler devices with different air-inlet size. Likewise, modified DUSA assembly was used to assess the delivered dose uniformity (DDU) of FP DPI. Micronized irregular shaped FP (d@sub_begin90@sub_end; 3.30) particles and lactose carriers (d@sub_begin90@sub_end; 130.84) showed particle size suitable for inhalation. Furthermore, formulated FP FPI achieved good content uniformity (>97%). ACI analysis exhibited a remarkable difference in the stage-wise drug deposition pattern. In terms of FPF, Lupihaler® (uniform air-inlet) displayed 1.12-fold superior performance as compared to Lupihaler-T® (t-shaped air-inlet) device. Moreover, modified DUSA assembly exhibited consistent and reproducible delivered dose using both devices. This research work is a first thorough report of FP DPI using a USP-modified IP inhaler with devices signify the opposite ends of air inlet size. Hence, it can be of budding significance for both institutional and industrial research.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666150820110826
Title:Formulation approaches to overcome biopharmaceutical limitations of inhaled peptides/proteins
Authors:S. OnoueH. SuzukiY. Seto
Absract:The pulmonary dosing route has been advocated as an attractive alternative to injection and oral administration for the systemic delivery of therapeutic peptides and proteins. The lung possesses many favorable physiological characteristics for systemic absorption of inhaled peptides/proteins, so inhalable formulation systems of these drugs have generated considerable interest as a valid and non-invasive dosing approach. A major obstacle to the widespread use of inhalation therapies for many peptides/proteins is the limited bioavailability and thereby insufficient therapeutic outcomes because of biopharmaceutical challenges such as rapid pulmonary clearance, limited pulmonary deposition, delayed dissolution in lung environment, poor membrane permeability, and low metabolic stability. A better understanding of the biopharmaceutical properties of inhaled peptides/proteins would be indispensable to overcome these drawbacks with the aid of strategic drug delivery systems and chemical synthesis of new derivatives based on structure-activity relationship information, possibly leading to improved therapeutic potential of pharmaceutical products. The present paper reviews biopharmaceutical properties of inhaled peptides/proteins, with a focus on the pharmacokinetic fate of inhaled peptides/proteins and critical determinants of therapeutic potential. The emphasis in this mini-review will also be on viable formulation approaches for breakthroughs beyond the biopharmaceutical limitations of inhalation therapy with peptides/proteins.

doi:10.4155/ppa.12.66
Title:Inhalation therapy to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:D. BaradiaN. KhatriS. TrehanA. Misra
Absract:Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive disease of the pulmonary vascular system, which may lead to right-heart failure or early death in the absence of effective treatment. The current therapy for PAH mainly includes phosphodiesterase inhibitors, prostanoids and endothelin receptor antagonists. These, however, have adverse effects when administered via conventional routes. There is a clear and critical need for the development of a novel delivery system that can efficiently deliver the drug to lung vasculature and minimize adverse effects. This article summarizes the inhalation devices and recent patents in the area of inhalable therapy for the treatment of PAH. Various patents are discussed that describe the application of inhalable therapy to target lung vasculature and to reduce dose-related side effects in PAH treatment. Entry of some inhalable delivery approaches into clinical trials is the result of progress in inhalable therapies for the treatment of PAH. © 2012 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2009.04.029
Title:Aerosol delivery of nebulised budesonide in young children with asthma
Authors:K.G. SchueeppS.G. DevadasonC. RollerS. MinocchieriA. MoellerJ. HamacherJ.H. Wildhaber
Absract:Background: Lung deposition of inhaled steroids, likely to be of benefit in the anti-inflammatory treatment of asthma in young children, is low. This is explained by age specific anatomical and physiological characteristics as well as poor cooperation with aerosol therapy. However, total lung deposition and the ratio of lung deposition to oropharyngeal deposition are key determinants of clinical efficacy and of systemic side effects of aerosolized drugs. Objectives: The aim of this study was to determine lung deposition and ratio of lung deposition to oropharyngeal deposition using a modified vibrating membrane nebuliser to deliver budesonide with a small particle size, taking into account the needs of young children. Patients and methods: Ten asthmatic children (5 males), mean age 20.3 months (range 6-41 months) inhaled radiolabelled budesonide (MMD 2.6 μm) through a modified vibrating membrane nebuliser (modified PARI e-Flow@sup_begin®@sup_end). Lung deposition expressed as a percentage of the emitted dose was measured using scintigraphy and the ratio of lung deposition to oropharyngeal deposition was calculated. Results: Mean lung deposition (SD) expressed as percentage of emitted dose and mean lung to oropharyngeal deposition ratio (SD) in quietly breathing children (n = 5) and in children crying during inhalation were 48.6% (10.5) versus 20.0% (10.9), and 1.0 (0.3) versus 0.3 (0.2), respectively. Conclusions: We have shown that by using an improved age-adjusted complementary combination of delivery device and drug formulation to deliver small particles, lung deposition and ratio of lung deposition to oropharyngeal deposition in young asthmatic children is highly improved. But the main factor limiting aerosol delivery in this age group remains cooperation. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd.

doi:10.1111/j.1463-1326.2008.00961.x
Title:PROMAXX® inhaled insulin: Safe and efficacious administration with a commercially available dry powder inhaler
Authors:T. HeiseA. BruggerC. CookU. EckersA. HutchcraftL. NosekK. RaveJ. TroegerP. ValaitisS. WhiteL. Heinemann
Absract:Objectives: We investigated the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) properties of recombinant human insulin inhalation powder (RHIIP), manufactured with PROMAXX® technology, which allows formation of uniform protein microspheres. Methods: Thirty healthy male subjects [age 30 ± 1 years (mean ± s.e.), body mass index 24.2 ± 0.3 kg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end] in a randomized crossover study received 10IU subcutaneous regular human insulin (SCIns) and 6.5mg of RHIIP [187IU, Cyclohaler™ dry powder inhaler (DPI)] under euglycaemic glucose clamp conditions. Subjects were trained to inhale RHIIP with a flow rate of 90 ± 30l/min prior to dosing. Results: Inhalation of RHIIP was well tolerated with no episode of cough or shortness of breath. RHIIP showed a faster onset of action than SCIns [time to reach 10% of total area under the glucose infusion rate (GIR) curves 73 ± 2 vs. 95 ± 3min, time to maximal metabolic effect (T@sub_beginmax@sub_endGIR) 173 ± 13 vs. 218 ± 9 min, both p < 0.0001]. Duration of action (371 ± 11 vs. 366 ± 7 min) and total metabolic effect (AUCGIR0-10 h 2734 ± 274 vs. 2482 ± 155 mg/kg) were comparable. PK results were in accordance with the PD findings. Relative bioavailability (BA) of RHIIP was 12 ± 2%, and relative biopotency (BP) was 6 ± 1%. Conclusions: PROMAXX technology allowed for safe and efficacious administration of RHIIP to the deep lung with an off-the-shelf DPI. RHIIP showed a fast onset of action and BA/BP comparable to that reported for other inhaled insulin formulations using specifically designed inhalers. Improvements in the insulin delivery technique might allow to optimize drug application in all cases with even higher BA/BP with RHIIP. © 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

doi:10.1111/all.14850
Title:Silencing of SARS-CoV-2 with modified siRNA-peptide dendrimer formulation
Authors:M. KhaitovA. NikonovaI. ShilovskiyK. KozhikhovaI. KofiadiL. VishnyakovaA. NikolskiiP. GattingerV. KovchinaE. BarvinskaiaK. YumashevV. SmirnovA. MaerleI. KozlovA. ShatilovA. TimofeevaS. AndreevO. KoloskovaN. KuznetsovaD. VasinaM. NikiforovaS. RybalkinI. SergeevD. TrofimovA. MartynovI. BerzinV. GushchinA. KovalchukS. BorisevichR. ValentaR. KhaitovV. Skvortsova
Absract:Background: First vaccines for prevention of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) are becoming available but there is a huge and unmet need for specific forms of treatment. In this study we aimed to evaluate the anti-SARS-CoV-2 effect of siRNA both in vitro and in vivo. Methods: To identify the most effective molecule out of a panel of 15 in silico designed siRNAs, an in vitro screening system based on vectors expressing SARS-CoV-2 genes fused with the firefly luciferase reporter gene and SARS-CoV-2-infected cells was used. The most potent siRNA, siR-7, was modified by Locked nucleic acids (LNAs) to obtain siR-7-EM with increased stability and was formulated with the peptide dendrimer KK-46 for enhancing cellular uptake to allow topical application by inhalation of the final formulation – siR-7-EM/KK-46. Using the Syrian Hamster model for SARS-CoV-2 infection the antiviral capacity of siR-7-EM/KK-46 complex was evaluated. Results: We identified the siRNA, siR-7, targeting SARS-CoV-2 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) as the most efficient siRNA inhibiting viral replication in vitro. Moreover, we showed that LNA-modification and complexation with the designed peptide dendrimer enhanced the antiviral capacity of siR-7 in vitro. We demonstrated significant reduction of virus titer and lung inflammation in animals exposed to inhalation of siR-7-EM/KK-46 in vivo. Conclusions: Thus, we developed a therapeutic strategy for COVID-19 based on inhalation of a modified siRNA-peptide dendrimer formulation. The developed medication is intended for inhalation treatment of COVID-19 patients.

pui:36187852
Title:Excipient-related adverse drug reactions
Authors:M. Salkovic-Petrisic
Absract:Besides active compounds, most drugs contain inert drug ingredients (excipients), necessary for designing the final pharmaceutical drug formulation, for preserving its stability, and/or improving its color, taste and smell, etc. There is a misconception among physicians, pharmacists, drug manufacturers, patients and the public that excipients themselves have no pharmacodynamic activity, and consequently no adverse reactions. However, case reports and clinical trials demonstrating excipient-related adverse reactions do exist in the literature. Azo-dyes (e.g., tartrazine, Sunset Yellow FCF, Ponceau 4R, etc.) that visually alter the appearance of a drug (food and drinks) by imparting a definite color, may cause hypersensitivity reactions in ≤ 20% of patients such as, tartrazine-induced urticaria, acute bronchospasm and asthma, with the possibility of cross-reactivity between tartrazine and acetylsalicylic acid. According to the legislation requirements in the Western countries, tartrazine and other azo-dyes should be listed in the drug declaration, along with special warning about their possible adverse reactions. In some countries, tartrazine has even been forbidden as a drug excipient. All these measures have contributed to reducing the prevalence of tartrazine- induced adverse reactions to 3%. Tartrazine is included in the List of approved drug excipients in Croatia, and can be found in certain drugs, but no special warnings of its possible adverse reactions have been inserted in drug declarations. Due to their antioxidant properties, sulfiting agents (sodium and potassium metabisulfite, sodium and potassium bisulfite, and sodium sulfite) are frequently used as drug excipients (in food and drinks as well), particularly in bronchodilatator solutions, local anesthetics, corticosteroids, antibiotics, antiarrhythmics, analgesics, anti-shock drugs, and vitamins. Systemic adverse reactions like flushing, urticaria and angioedema have been attributed to intravenous and inhalation administration of drugs containing sulfiting agents. Sulfiting agents generate sulfur dioxide (SO@sub_begin2@sub_end) in the body, shich upon inhalation (in addition to other mechanisms) triggers broncho-constriction in 5%-10% of patients with asthma. The risk of adverse reactions to sulfiting agents for non-atopic, non-asthmatic individuals appears to be low Although pharmaceuticals containing sulfiting agents have been registered in Croatia, but no special warning for asthmatic and atopic patients has been inserted in the drug declarations. Propylene glycol has been widely used as a solvent in drugs, for dissolving corticosteroids, phenols, sulfa drugs, barbiturates, vitamins (A and D), most alkaloids, and local anesthetics. In topical preparations, propylene glycol may cause contact dermatitis (frequency 12%) and local skin and mucous membrane irritation. The toxic effects of propylene glycol, such as ion dysbalance, anion gap, hyperosmolarity, metabolic acidosis and hemolysis, have been related to its metabolite, lactate. These were reported following the administration of parenteral solutions, mostly infusion of lorazepam, diazepam and etomidate. Increased concentrations of propylene glycol can be nephrotoxic, particularly in patients with renal insufficiency. Drug declarations of propylene glycol-containing drugs in Croatia do not include special warning about possible propylene-induced adverse reactions. Various problems make it difficult to relate adverse drug reactions to their excipients. Drugs registered in Croatia contain excipients with potential adverse reactions, but drug declarations contain no special warning about it. Moreover, there is a number of drugs in Croatia that still do not have excipients listed on the package or drug declaration. According to the Croatian Regulations on Drug Registration Procedure and its List of excipients, in the declaration of drug formulations for parenteral and topical (skin and eye) use, all excipients should be listed. For all other drug formulations, drug declaration should only contain excipients that have known effects and are listed. Finally, according to our investigation, the physicians' knowledge about drug excipients, in general, is not adequate.

doi:10.1136/ejhpharm-2020-eahpconf.433
Title:Safer handling of oral hazardous drugs in hospital units
Authors:P. Tejedor PradoE.A. Alvaro AlonsoE. Izquierdo GarcíaA. Santiago PérezA. Such DíazS. Esteban CasadoA. Lázaro CebasI. Cañamares OrbisC. Esteban AlbaI. Escobar Rodríguez
Absract:Background and importance After the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) classified hazardous drugs (HD), it was deemed necessary to make healthcare workers aware of the risks associated with handling HD in their daily work to mitigate these risks. Aim and objectives To analyse oral HD handling activities to make handling recommendations based on the lowest dust inhalation risk and to ensure the safety of healthcare workers in hospital units. Material and methods Oral HD were classified into two categories: groups 1 and 2 and group 3 according to NIOSH grouping system. Secondly, oral HD handling activities in hospital units based on their dust inhalation risk to the workers were ranked and decisions were taken accordingly: opening capsules and sachets must be avoided; marketed liquid formulations is strongly preferred; and in their absence, crushing tablets using closed systems is preferred over compounding medications due to shorter administering periods in hospital units. Finally, the above mentioned ranking was followed for every oral HD. If no marketed liquid alternatives were found, research on techniques for crushing and dissolving tablets was conducted. In the absence of crushing techniques, academic research on compounding oral HD was carried out. For the remaining oral HD, information was requested from the manufacturers. Results A total of 59 active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) from groups 1 and 2 were analysed. Marketed liquid formulations were found for 13 API (abacavir, ciclosporin, crizotinib, phenytoin, megestrol, mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid, nevirapine, oxcarbazepine, trametinib, tofacitinib, valgan-ciclovir, and zidovudine). Techniques on crushing and dissolving tablets were available for 21 API (abiraterone, axitinib, busulfan, dasatinib, entecavir, enzalutamide, everolimus, exemestane, flutamide, imatinib, letrozole, medroxyprogester-one, melphalan, mercaptopurine, methimazole, methotrexate, mitotane, ponatinib, rasagiline, sorafenib and tamoxifen). For 13 API (azathioprine, capecitabine, carbamazepine, cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, etoposide, hydroxyurea, procarbazine, spironolactone, sunitinib, tacrolimus, thalidomide and topotecan) compounding oral information was found. No information was obtained for 12 API (20.3%) (bexarotene, bosutinib, cabozantinib, fingolimod, fludarabine, ixazomib, lenalidomide, nilotinib, pazopanib, pomalidomide, Regorafenib and vinorelbine) for which avoiding their handling and seeking other therapeutic alternative was advised. For the remaining 79.7% of API, priority was given to the recommendation of the lowest dust inhalation risk handling alternative. Conclusion and relevance Safe handling alternatives were found for most of the analysed oral HD in the sample, with potential to minimise workers' handling risk and ensure safety measures in hospital units.

doi:10.1517/17425240802652309
Title:Recent advances in liposomal dry powder formulations: Preparation and evaluation
Authors:A. MisraK. JinturkarD. PatelJ. LalaniM. Chougule
Absract:Liposomal drug dry powder formulations have shown many promising features for pulmonary drug administration, such as selective localization of drug within the lung, controlled drug release, reduced local and systemic toxicities, propellant-free nature, patient compliance, high dose carrying capacity, stability and patent protection. Critical review of the recent developments will provide a balanced view on benefits of liposomal encapsulation while developing dry powder formulations and will help researchers to update themselves and focus their research in more relevant areas. In liposomal dry powder formulations (LDPF), drug encapsulated liposomes are homogenized, dispersed into the carrier and converted into dry powder form by using freeze drying, spray drying and spray freeze drying. Alternatively, LDPF can also be formulated by supercritical fluid technologies. On inhalation with a suitable inhalation device, drug encapsulated liposomes get rehydrated in the lung and release the drug over a period of time. The prepared LDPF are evaluated in vitro and in vivo for lung deposition behavior and drug disposition in the lung using a suitable inhaler device. The most commonly used liposomes are composed of lung surfactants and synthetic lipids. Delivery of anticancer agents for lung cancer, corticosteroids for asthma, immunosuppressants for avoiding lung transplantation rejection, antifungal drugs for lung fungal infections, antibiotics for local pulmonary infections and cystic fibrosis and opioid analgesics for pain management using liposome technology are a few examples. Many liposomal formulations have reached the stage of clinical trials for the treatment of pulmonary distress, cystic fibrosis, lung fungal infection and lung cancer. These formulations have given very promising results in both in vitro and in vivo studies. However, modifications to new therapies for respiratory diseases and systemic delivery will provide new challenges in conducting well-designed inhalation toxicology studies to support these products, especially for chronic diseases. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd All rights reserved.

doi:10.1177/00912700122012913
Title:Single-dose and steady-state pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic evaluation of therapeutically clinically equivalent doses of inhaled fluticasone propionate and budesonide, given as diskus® or turbohaler® dry-powder inhalers to healthy subjects
Authors:H. MöllmannM. WagnerS. KrishnaswamiH. DimovaY. TangC. FalcozP.T. Daley-YatesM. KriegR. StöckmannJ. BarthC. LawlorA.C. MöllmannH. DerendorfG. Hochhaus
Absract:Direct comparisons of the pharmacokinetic (PK) and systemic pharmacodynamic (PD) properties of inhaled corticosteroids after single and multiple dosing in the same subjects are scarce. The objective of this study was to compare the PK/PD properties of clinically equivalent, single, and multiple doses of dry-powder formulations of inhaled fluticasone propionate (FP, 200 and 500 μg via Diskus®) and budesonide (BUD, 400 and 1000 μg via Turbohaler®). Fourteen healthy subjects completed a double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, placebo-controlled, five-way crossover study consisting of a single dose administered at 8 a.m. on day 1 followed by 4 days of twice-daily dosing at 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. on days 2 to 5. Serum concentrations of FP and BUD were measured using validated liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry assays. The 24-hour cumulative cortisol suppression (CCS) in serum was monitored as the pharmacodynamic surrogate marker. Peak serum concentrations following single and multiple dosing were observed 10 to 30 minutes after inhalation for BUD and 30 to 90 minutes after inhalation of FP with no influence of dose or dosing regimen. After a single dose of 1000 μg BUD and 500 μg FP, the median estimates of terminal half-life and mean residence time were 3.5 and 3.9 hours for BUD and 10.1 and 12.0 hours for FP, respectively. Using previously reported intravenous data, the mean absorption times (MAT) were calculated to be around 2 hours and 7 hours for BUD and FP, respectively. On average, the area under the curve (AUC) at steady state (day 5) was up to 30% higher for BUD compared to that over a 12-hour period following the first dose on day 1, whereas AUC estimates were 50% to 80% higher for FP at steady state, indicating accumulation. However, the steady-state C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values were seven to eight times and AUC values three to four times higher for BUD than for FR. Comparison of active treatment data with placebo showed that CCS after a single dose was not pronounced for any of the doses/drugs studied. On day 5, both doses of BUD caused statistically significant suppression (CCS of 19% for the 400 μg dose and 36% for the 1000 μg dose). For FR only the high dose had a statistically significant effect on serum cortisol (CCS of 14% for the 200 μg dose and 27% for the 500 μg dose). Compared to BUD, FP has slower pulmonary absorption and slower elimination kinetics. However, following inhalation of therapeutically equipotent, multiple twice-daily doses in healthy subjects, the systemic effects of FP delivered via Diskus® on AUC@sub_begin24@sub_end serum cortisol were relatively low and similar to those of BUD delivered via Turbohaler®. ©2001 the American College of Clinical Pharmacology.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.09.006
Title:Advax augments B and T cell responses upon influenza vaccination via the respiratory tract and enables complete protection of mice against lethal influenza virus challenge
Authors:J. TomarH.P. PatilG. BrachoW.F. TonnisH.W. FrijlinkN. PetrovskyR. VanbeverA. HuckriedeW.L.J. Hinrichs
Absract:Administration of influenza vaccines via the respiratory tract has potential benefits over conventional parenteral administration, inducing immunity directly at the site of influenza exposure as well as being needle free. In this study, we investigated the suitability of Advax™ a stable particulate polymorph of inulin, also referred to as delta inulin, as a mucosal adjuvant for whole inactivated influenza vaccine (WIV) administered either as a liquid or dry powder formulation. Spray freeze-drying produced Advax-adjuvanted WIV powder particles in a size range (1–5 μm) suitable for inhalation. The physical and biological characteristics of both WIV and Advax remained unaltered both by admixing WIV with Advax and by spray freeze drying. Upon intranasal or pulmonary immunization, both liquid and dry powder formulations containing Advax induced significantly higher systemic, mucosal and cellular immune responses than non-adjuvanted WIV formulations. Furthermore, pulmonary immunization with Advax-adjuvanted WIV led to robust memory B cell responses along with an increase of lung localization factors i.e. CXCR3, CD69, and CD103. A less pronounced but still positive effect of Advax was seen on memory T cell responses. In contrast to animals immunized with WIV alone, all animals pulmonary immunized with a single dose of Advax-adjuvanted WIV were fully protected with no visible clinical symptoms against a lethal dose of influenza virus. These data confirm that Advax is a potent mucosal adjuvant that boosts vaccine-induced humoral and cellular immune responses both in the lung and systemically with major positive effects on B-cell memory and complete protection against live virus. Hence, respiratory tract immunization, particularly via the lungs, with Advax-adjuvanted WIV formulation as a liquid or dry powder is a promising alternative to parenteral influenza vaccination.

doi:10.1002/jps.23795
Title:Development and characterization of an in vitro release assay for liposomal ciprofloxacin for inhalation
Authors:D. CipollaH. WuS. EastmanT. RedelmeierI. GondaH.-K. Chan
Absract:A novel method was developed and optimized to measure the in vitro release (IVR) of two liposomal ciprofloxacin formulations under development to treat lung infection. The release agent, bovine serum, has components that interact with liposomes to cause the encapsulated drug to be released. The precision and accuracy of the method were characterized. The method has a nearly linear release phase initially, which then approaches a plateau value after 2-4 h. The robustness of the method was verified over a range of release agent and liposomal concentrations, and in response to changes in incubation temperature, buffer pH, and storage containers of serum. For this "sample and separate" IVR method, there is less than 2% release at the T = 0 time point, indicating negligible artifactual release before analysis. For both inhaled liposomal ciprofloxacin products, the plateau value represents 100% release of the encapsulated drug. The key elements of this IVR method may prove useful for characterization of other liposomal products as well. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association J Pharm Sci 103:314-327, 2014 © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(94)90132-5
Title:Production of spray dried salbutamol sulphate for use in dry powder aerosol formulation
Authors:A. ChawlaK.M.G. TaylorJ.M. NewtonM.C.R. Johnson
Absract:Salbutamol sulphate particles, for use in dry powder aerosol formulation, were prepared by spray drying, using a Buchi 190 mini spray dryer. The spray drying parameters were investigated in relation to particle size and yield of the resultant powder. Important factors were determined using a 2@sup_begin4@sup_end factorial statistical design. The four factors investigated were pump speed, aspirator level (the rate at which the drying air is pulled through the dryer), inlet temperature and the concentration of the aqueous salbutamol sulphate solution dried. Spray drying conditions were chosen based on results from the experimental design and working knowledge of the spray dryer, to produce a batch of salbutamol sulphate powder on which further studies were performed. The physicochemical properties of spray dried salbutamol sulphate were compared to those of the micronised drug. Infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, appearance, particle size analysis (including aerodynamic diameter) and powder flow were investigated. It was found that spray drying produced spherically shaped particles of salbutamol sulphate having a mass median diameter of 4.5 μm (laser diffraction), mean Feret's diameter (image analysis) of 1.58 μm and a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 9.7 μm (cascade impaction), i.e., particles sufficiently small in diameter for use in inhalation formulation. The spray dried material was seen to perform as well as the micronised material in most cases with the exception of powder flow properties, where performance was slightly poorer.

doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2021.03.016
Title:Why We Should Target Small Airways Disease in Our Management of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
Authors:O.S. UsmaniR. DhandF. LavoriniD. Price
Absract:For more than 50 years, small airways disease has been considered a key feature of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and a major cause of airway obstruction. Both preventable and treatable, small airways disease has important clinical consequences if left unchecked. Small airways disease is associated with poor spirometry results, increased lung hyperinflation, and poor health status, making the small airways an important treatment target in COPD. The early detection of small airways disease remains the key barrier; if detected early, treatments designed to target small airways may help reduce symptoms and allow patients to maintain their activities. Studies are needed to evaluate the possible role of new drugs and novel drug formulations, inhalers, and inhalation devices for treating small airways disease. These developments will help to improve our management of small airways disease in patients with COPD.

doi:10.2174/1567201815666180214142300
Title:Delivery of peptidic gonadotropin releasing hormone antagonists
Authors:R.Y. Al SheyyabB.M. Al-TaaniR.M. ObeidatM.M. AlsmadiR.K. MasaedehR.N. Sabat
Absract:GnRH antagonists have several clinical applications in prostate cancer, regulation of ovulation induction in females, breast cancer, male contraception and others. Antagonists differ from natural GnRH decapeptide in having five or more amino acid substitutions, whereas most of the antagonists are available as subcutaneous (SC) formula for injection some are formulated as a depot formulation for sustained release (e.g., Cetrorelix, Degarelix). Systemic delivery of cetrorelix acetate by intratracheal route can be achieved using dry powder for inhalation of the adhesive mixture when the powder deposition reaches stage four. The oral route for systemic delivery of peptide without its degradation can be achieved using gastrointestinal permeation enhancement technology GIPET® provided by acyline.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2017.ab02.abstracts
Title:Modelling drug entrainment in a dry powder inhaler: Benchmarking and sensitivity analysis of a multiphase CFD approach
Authors:T. KopschD. SymonsD. Murnane
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are used to deliver drug powder to the lungs. When a patient inhales through a DPI, air flows through the drug compartment and entrains drug. The rate of entrainment depends on a number of factors, including the inhalation flowrate, the geometry of the inhaler and physicochemical properties of the drug formulation. While the influence of each of these factors has been studied experimentally, a robust computational method to predict drug entrainment accurately for real world combinations of these parameters would be useful in the design and optimization of DPIs. The objective of this study was to investigate the applicability of a multiphase computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulation approach: Firstly, results of two different CFD solvers (ANSYS Fluent and Open- FOAM) were compared with experimental data. Secondly, the sensitivity of the drug release rate to variations of drug properties and CFD solver settings was investigated. Particularly, (a) the size of drug particles, (b) the density of particles, (c) the initial volume fraction, α, (d) the drag model, (e) the packing limit, α@sub_beginmax@sub_end, and (f) the solids pressure were varied. This investigation showed that the two different CFD solvers produced similar results and that these results were consistent with experimental data. The sensitivity analysis indicated that the simulated entrainment is not strongly dependant on either particle size or the choice of drag and solids pressure model. However, drug density, the initial volume fraction of drug, and the choice of the packing limit, do significantly influence the results.

doi:10.1016/j.ajps.2015.08.001
Title:Optimizing aerosolization of a high-dose L-arginine powder for pulmonary delivery
Authors:S. LakioD.A.V. MortonA.P. RalphP. Lambert
Absract:In this study a carrier-free dry powder inhalation (DPI) containing L-arginine (ARG) was developed. As such, it is proposed that ARG could be used for adjunctive treatment of cystic fibrosis and/or tuberculosis. Various processing methods were used to manufacture high-dose formulation batches consisting various amounts of ARG and excipients. The formulations were evaluated using several analytical methods to assess suitability for further investigation. Several batches had enhanced in vitro aerolization properties. Significant future challenges include the highly hygroscopic nature of unformulated ARG powder and identifying the scale of dose of ARG required to achieve the response in lungs.

doi:10.1016/j.paed.2011.05.011
Title:Mucociliary clearance in cystic fibrosis: Physiology and pharmacological treatments
Authors:K. TreacyM. TunneyJ.S. ElbornJ.M. Bradley
Absract:The understanding of how mutations of the cystic fibrosis gene results in recurrent infection and the development of bronchiectasis is now well established. This review examines aspects of lung pathophysiology specifically, abnormal mucociliary clearance, inflammation and infection which are the basis of the daily symptoms encountered by people with cystic fibrosis. Other components of the lung epithelium and their potential contribution to cystic fibrosis disease are discussed. Therapeutic interventions which aim to target abnormal mucociliary clearance are summarized. © 2011 Elsevier Ltd.

pui:25185648
Title:The best way to use aerosolic treatment. Part 1 - Methods
Authors:A. Battistini
Absract:The dimension of the particles delivered by a compressor-nebulizer system and therefore the ability to penetrate in the distal lung, varies according to different nebulizers. Moreover the aerosol is better in quality higher the flow furnished by the compressors is. The quantity of drug inhaled is greater as lower the residual amount of liquid left in the nebulizer is: the latter is less in glass nebulizers than in plastic nebulizers. The ultrasonic inhaler does not present any qualitative or quantitative advantages respect to the pneumatic inhaler. A very important point in the execution of an aerosol is oral respiration. The administration of the drug through a mouthpiece does not present substantial differences respect to the use of a face mask kept in a vertical position and adherent to the face. Metered-dose inhalers shorten the time of performance, but an active cooperation is needed; moreover the quantity of drug that resides in the oropharynx increases and consequently adverse effects, too. These two obstacles are overcome by the use of spacers which are chosen on the basis of the child's age. Aerosolic treatment has been simplified by the use of powders for inhalation, but we do not always obtain correct inhaling flows in children, especially when they are bronchoobstructed. Therefore compressor or ultrasonic aerosol is more useful in bronchoobstruction, while metered-dose inhalers with spacers are more useful in long-term treatment. Powder is usually used in children over 6-7 years of age and excludes the use of important drugs, such as cortisone, which may present relevant adverse effects.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2013.05.019
Title:The production of dry powder by the sonocrystallisation for inhalation drug delivery
Authors:S.A.F.S. MuhammadH. OubaniA. AbbasH.-K. ChanP.C.L. KwokF. Dehghani
Absract:An anti-solvent sonocrystallisation technique was applied for the production of salbutamol sulphate fine particles for the dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. The effects of process variables, namely sonication power (watt, W) and volume ratio of anti-solvent to solute solution on the particle characteristics of salbutamol sulphate were investigated. Depending on process variables, fine particles of salbutamol sulphate with a size distribution in a range of 2. μm to 5. μm were successfully produced. Spray drying of sonocrystallised anti-solvent suspension produced micron size crystalline salbutamol sulphate. Emitted dose of this powder was 42% that was significantly enhanced compared to amorphous form produced by spray drying technique. This value was measured by the fine particle fraction (FPF. @sub_beginemitted@sub_end) for the blend of coarse lactose (CoL) and spray-dried sonocrystallised salbutamol sulphate. The data acquired from this study demonstrates the potential of designed process for the production of particles with micron size distributions and highly crystalline form, particularly for DPI formulation. © 2013.

doi:10.1002/jps.21630
Title:Budesonide nanoparticle agglomerates as dry powder aerosols with rapid dissolution
Authors:N. El-GendyE.M. GormanE.J. MunsonC. Berkland
Absract:Nanoparticle technology represents an attractive approach for formulating poorly water-soluble pulmonary medicines. Unfortunately, nanoparticle suspensions used in nebulizers or metered dose inhalers often suffer from physical instability in the form of uncontrolled agglomeration or Ostwald ripening. In addition, processing such suspensions into dry powders can yield broad particle size distributions. To address these encumbrances, a controlled nanoparticle flocculation process has been developed. Nanosuspensions of the poorly water-soluble drug budesonide were prepared by dissolving the drug in organic solvent containing surfactants followed by rapid solvent extraction in water. Different surfactants were employed to control the size and surface charge of the precipitated nanoparticles. Nanosuspensions were flocculated using leucine and lyophilized. Selected budesonide nanoparticle suspensions exhibited an average particle size ranging from ∼160 to 230 nm, high yield and high drug content. Flocculated nanosuspensions produced micron-sized agglomerates. Freeze-drying the nanoparticle agglomerates yielded dry powders with desirable aerodynamic properties for inhalation therapy. In addition, the dissolution rates of dried nanoparticle agglomerate formulations were significantly faster than that of stock budesonide. The results of this study suggest that nanoparticle agglomerates possess the microstructure desired for lung deposition and the nanostructure to facilitate rapid dissolution of poorly watersoluble drugs. © 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/j.ddtec.2005.05.016
Title:Performance-driven, pulmonary delivery of systemically acting drugs
Authors:R. Vanbever
Absract:Systemic drug delivery using inhalation aerosols presents requirements and challenges. To be well absorbed from the lung, a compound needs to be delivered to the alveolar region and recent high technology inhaler systems have allowed increased efficiency of drug administration to the deep lung. Yet, clearance mechanisms within the respiratory tissue operate effectively and considerably diminish bioavailabilities. Methods for enhancing drug absorption from the lung have been investigated. Viable and recent strategies to accelerate drug transport across respiratory epithelia or to decrease the rate of local degradation processes are reported. © 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

pui:40221719
Title:Exubera®: Treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes
Authors:S.L. Cox
Absract:Exubera® is an inhaled insulin formulation for patients with type 1 and insulin-requiring type 2 diabetes, the most advanced of several inhaled insulin systems being developed. It uses an inhalation device and inhaled insulin formulation process that is a non-invasive alternative to injections. Exubera® is associated with fewer systemic side effects and offers rapid symptom relief. The formulation has been studied in over 3,000 patients, some for as long as 6 years. Evidence suggests that Exubera® may be as effective as s.c. insulin and superior to oral agents in controlling glycemia in patients with diabetes. It appears to have a unique effect on both fasting plasma and 2-h post-prandial glucose levels compared with other treatment regimens. The increased insulin antibodies that appear with Exubera® are not associated with any significant clinical manifestations. In clinical trials, the frequency and severity of adverse events were similar in the Exubera® and control groups. Although mild to moderate cough occurred more frequently in Exubera®-treated patients, it disappeared with increased exposure. A small difference in pulmonary function tests, without clinical manifestations, has been observed between Exubera® and control patients. Exubera® has been filed for approval in Europe and is expected to be submitted soon to the FDA.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(98)00087-8
Title:Lung deposition of budesonide in asthmatics: A comparison of different formulations
Authors:L. ThorssonC. KenyonS.P. NewmanL. Borgström
Absract:Lung deposition of budesonide administered from a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI), with and without a large volume spacer (Nebuhaler®) attached, and from Turbuhaler®, were compared in an open, crossover, randomized study in eight asthmatic patients under optimum inhalation conditions using a @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-tracer and scintigraphic imaging. The total and regional deposition of aerosol in the lungs as well as the oropharyngeal deposition was determined. The percentage of dose in the whole lung was 11.9 ± 5.0% (mean ± SD.) from a pMDI, 38.4 ± 10.2% from a pMDI with Nebuhaler and 26.1 ± 10.5% from Turbuhaler. The mean lung deposition from Turbuhaler was significantly greater (p = 0.0005) than that from a pMDI alone, and a pMDI with Nebuhaler gave significantly greater lung deposition compared with a pMDI (p < 0.0001) and Turbuhaler (p = 0.02). No significant difference was observed in central lung deposition between Turbuhaler and Nebuhaler administrations, whereas Nebuhaler gave a greater intermediate and peripheral lung deposition. Administrations via pMDI and pMDI with Nebuhaler gave higher peripheral/central ratios (~ 1.2) vs 0.64 with Turbuhaler. The total lung deposition of budesonide via a pMDI and Turbuhaler in asthmatic patients in the present study was comparable with that previously found in healthy subjects.

doi:10.4155/tde-2020-0117
Title:Development of a dry powder for inhalation of nanoparticles codelivering cisplatin and ABCC3 siRNA in lung cancer
Authors:V. PatelD. BardoliwalaR. LalaniS. PatilS. GhoshA. JaviaA. Misra
Absract:Background: The current study sought to formulate a dry powder inhalant (DPI) for pulmonary delivery of lipopolymeric nanoparticles (LPNs) consisting of cisplatin and siRNA for multidrug-resistant lung cancer. siRNA against ABCC3 gene was used to silence drug efflux promoter. Results & discussion: The formulation was optimized through the quality by design system by nanoparticle size and cisplatin entrapment. The lipid concentration, polymer concentration and lipid molar ratio were selected as variables. The DPI was characterized by in vitro deposition study using the Anderson cascade impactor. DPI formulation showed improved pulmonary pharmacokinetic parameters of cisplatin with higher residence time in lungs. Conclusion: Local delivery of siRNA and cisplatin to the lung tissue resulted into an enhanced therapeutic effectiveness in combating drug resistance.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:In vitro evaluation of pediatric nasal and paranasal drug delivery
Authors:L. GolshahiS. Hosseini
Absract:Intranasal drug delivery devices have mainly been developed for adults. Children are expected to receive a different local dose compared to adults due to their different airway morphology and inhalation patterns. We aimed to compare the efficiency of most common nasal drug delivery devices in terms of regional delivery of suspension and solution formulations in pediatric and adult subjects. To do this, anatomically-correct nasal models of 2-, 5-, and 50-year old subjects were developed to evaluate regional nasal delivery of suspensions of fluticasone propionate and fluticasone furoate delivered with Flonase ®, Flonase® Sensimist™, respectively, and the delivery of an aqueous solution of a model drug, administered with MAD Nasal™, PARI SinuStar™, and Sinus™ nebulizers. Controlled administration methods were used, and all contributing parameters including particle size, velocity, and plume geometry were measured. The results showed that nasal sprays are not efficient for pediatric population and they result in significant anterior losses. MAD atomizer resulted in significantly less anterior deposition compared to the nasal sprays, but run off to the throat should be considered. Paranasal delivery was significantly enhanced using pulsating nebulization under bidirectional breathing administration technique for all subjects. The results suggest that bidirectional breathing and pulsating airflow can be beneficial for paranasal drug delivery in children similar to the adults. Regulatory and Standardization Issues.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2010.11.021
Title:The production of 'aerodynamically equivalent' drug and excipient inhalable powders using a novel fractionation technique
Authors:M. TakiC. MarriottX.-M. ZengG.P. Martin
Absract:Inhalation particles can be produced by various techniques such as milling, controlled crystallisation and spray-drying, but current methods cannot, to-date, precisely control the aerodynamic size distribution of produced powders. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a novel preparative technique whereby the efficient and reproducible aerodynamic fractionation of drug and excipient powders could be achieved. Salmeterol xinafoate (SX), fluticasone propionate (FP) and fine α-lactose monohydrate (FL) were chosen as model compounds. Powders were aerosolised using a dry powder feeder into a Next Generation Impactor operated at 60 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. Powders deposited on NGI stages were then collected and analysed. The fractionation process was successful for all powders producing significant linear correlations between the pre-set aerodynamic cut-off limits and geometric size measurements. For each of SX, FP and FL, sufficient powder quantities were recovered from NGI stages 1-6 producing six fractions with sequential aerodynamic and geometric particle size distributions. The fractionation technique was efficient and reproducible for all powders studied. The method can be equally applied to various drugs and excipients regardless of their previous production/processing history. Therefore, the aerodynamic fractionation technique may be used to compare and contrast samples produced by different processes. © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1213/00000539-199407000-00016
Title:Intraoperative combined administration of indomethacin and buprenorphine suppositories as prophylactic therapy for post-open-cholecystectomy pain
Authors:S. WatanabeT. KondoN. AsakuraS. Inomata
Absract:Buprenorphine and indomethacin are quite different pharmacologically. The objective of this study was to determine the analgesic effect from their combined administration in suppository form. Eighty patients undergoing open cholecystectomy under nitrous oxide-oxygen-sevoflurane anesthesia, in addition to epidural anesthesia using lidocaine, were divided into four groups: Group A received buprenorphine 0.4 mg and indomethacin 50 mg; Group B, buprenorphine 0.4 mg; Group C, indomethacin 50 mg; and Group D, no drug. The drugs were administered after induction of general anesthesia. One patient was withdrawn because of the administration of the wrong drug. Patients in Group A required fewer analgesics, had a longer period of analgesic effect from the end of surgery, and enjoyed a better pain score. This group also included more patients who required no analgesics. We conclude that the combined administration of opioid and nonopioid suppositories may provide far better prophylactic analgesia than a single drug.

doi:10.1016/S0002-9610(05)80661-0
Title:The 1942 fire at Boston's Cocoanut Grove nightclub
Authors:J.R. Saffle
Absract:The year 1992 marked the 50th anniversary of one of the worst civilian disasters in American history. On November 28, 1942, fire destroyed Boston's Cocoanut Grove nightclub, killing 491 people and sending hundreds more to area hospitals. The disaster came at a unique time in the history of burn care and resulted in a number of important advances in burn treatment, including the first comprehensive descriptions of inhalation injury, improvements in topical treatment of burn wounds, resuscitation of shock, use of antibiotics, and understanding of the metabolic response to injury. In addition, the fire stimulated organization of burn care facilities, public safety legislation, and burn prevention. The history of the fire is reviewed, emphasizing its role in stimulating advances that formed some of the foundations of modern burn treatment.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Study of intermolecular interactions within solid state of PMDI drug particles
Authors:V.W. BarronR. HammondK. RobertsH. NguyenA. SloweyD. Murnane
Absract:A particle profile of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) fluticasone propionate (FP) was produced using previously validated molecular modelling techniques. The Tripos 5.2 [1] and Dreiding II [2] molecular mechanics potentials were used to calculate crystalline FP's lattice energy, attachment energy, morphology and surface chemistry. Predicted morphologies partially resemble previous experimental examples and both force fields predict the {001} form is prominent. Also, it is predicted that post micronisation the {10-1} and {11-1} forms would be prominent. This would increase particle cohesivity as surfaces in {11-1} directions are prone to forming hydrogen bonds. Performing an in-silico study is important as it can form the basis of 1FDA Beclomethasone dipropionate Inhalation Aerosol Metered NDA 207921 PSG Page RC May 2019 2Xiaofei L, William D, Changning G, Evaluation of metered dose inhaler spray velocities using Phase Doppler Anemometry (PDA), International Journal of Pharmaceutics 423 (2012) 235±239 predicting particle interactions at the molecular scale. Improving the understanding of how particles interact with each other and with other materials in the canister of the delivery device will aid the process of material selection in formulation development.

doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2011.02.014
Title:Current Understanding of Egg Allergy
Authors:J.-C. CaubetJ. Wang
Absract:Egg is one of the most important allergens in childhood feeding, and egg allergy can pose quality-of-life concerns. A clear clinical history and the detection of egg white-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) will confirm the diagnosis of IgE-mediated reactions. Non-IgE-mediated symptoms, such as those of eosinophilic diseases of the gut, might also be observed. Egg avoidance and education regarding the treatment of allergic reactions are the cornerstones of management of egg allergy. This article discusses epidemiology, risk factors, diagnosis, treatment, and natural history of egg allergy. © 2011 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1517/17425240903156374
Title:Formulating protein therapeutics into particulate forms
Authors:S. YangW. YuanT. Jin
Absract:This review is aimed at providing critical comments on selected approaches to formulating protein drugs into particulate forms feasible as practical pharmaceutical dosage forms. From a practical point of view, the need to formulate protein therapeutics into particulate forms includes inhalation and sustained-release delivery proteins, stabilizing and incorporating proteins into tissue engineering scaffolds and medical devices, as well as protecting and targeting protein therapeutics in an in vivo environment. For either of the applications, a common challenge is that proteins are easily denatured during particle-forming processes in which water-oil or water-air interfaces, multivalent ions or polyelectrolytes, strong shear stress and/or reactive crosslinking agents are often involved. Moreover, methods to protect proteins during the particle-forming processes must not compromise their pharmaceutical objectives, such as encapsulation efficiency, burst-free controlled release and storage convenience. Although numerous methods have been reported to formulate proteins into particulate systems, few of them meet the criteria above. To stimulate critical and interactive readings of the vast and booming information, the authors also provide their analysis regarding the feasibility of the formulation strategies summarized in this review. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Can a combination of magnesium stearate and fines tune the inhalable fraction of a mannitol carrier based interactive blend?
Authors:N. HertelG. BirkR. Scherließ
Absract:Mannitol is a suitable alternative to lactose in dry powder inhalation formulation. To tune the fine particle fraction, the addition of fines to saturate active sites, reduce press-on forces or form API-finesagglomerates could be considered. Furthermore, the addition of a coating agent like magnesium stearate (MgSt), which makes the surface of the carrier particles hydrophobic and reduces the strength of agglomerates, could also be an option. The following study evaluates the effect of the addition of fines, the addition of MgSt and a combination of both to a mannitol carrier-based formulation. Two different model APIs were used, budesonide and salbutamol sulphate. Powder rheological measurements were performed to get a closer look into the flowability and a better understanding of the volumetric dosing process. The aerodynamic performance of the formulations was examined by using three different inhaler devices (one capsulebased inhaler and two reservoir-based inhalers). All three optimisation methods increased the inhalable fraction but to a different extent. The addition of fines increased the respirable fraction, but it was found that the sole mixing of MgSt achieved significantly higher FPFs. By reducing the interparticle forces, the API was able to get dispersed better from the carrier and formed agglomerates were easier to destroy. With a further addition of fines a shift in the deposition profile to a higher mass median aerodynamic diameter was recognized. Thus, the deposition profile can be tailored by the addition of fines.

pui:624643715
Title:Related guidelines about in vitro population bioequivalence of locally acting inhaled drug products and nanoparticulate intravenous formulations in FDA
Authors:Y.-N. ZangS. YuJ. Yang
Absract:Demonstrating bioequivalence (BE) for inhaled drug products and nanoparticulate intravenous formulations for local action has been very challenging with classical pharmacokinetic parameters alone because the relationship between the drug in systemic circulation and the drug reaching the site of action has not been well established. According to the current FDA guidance on bioequivalence studies for inhaled drug products and nanoparticulate intravenous formulations, bioequivalence should be established first by a number of in vitro population bioequivalence (PBE) tests that demonstrate equivalent product performance, subsequently by in vivo pharmacokinetic (PK) BE study and clinical endpoint study of the test and reference products. This paper introduces the statistical rationale of related guidelines in PBE calculation, and demonstrates the process of the PBE calculation of budesonide suspension inhalation. In addition, equivalent range of particle size distribution of the test and reference products has been provided based on the PBE results. The researchers may adjust the pharmaceutical process accordingly so that a more credible formulation for clinical trials could be obtained with less time consuming exploration. It is believed that the application of PBE study for inhaled drug products and nanoparticulate intravenous formulations for local action would greatly accelerate the development of complex generic drugs in China.

doi:10.1016/S1773-2247(12)50010-9
Title:Nanoscale particles for lung delivery of siRNA
Authors:T.L. NascimentoH. HillaireauE. Fattal
Absract:Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are potent molecules capable of blocking gene expression after entering cell cytoplasm. Despite their strong efficacy, they need to be carried by nanoscale delivery systems that can protect them against degradation in biological fluids, increase their cellular uptake and favor their subcellular distribution. Several studies have highlighted the potential of local pulmonary delivery of siRNAs for the treatment of lung diseases. For this purpose, nanoscale delivery systems were addressed to target passively or actively the target cell. This review discusses the possibilities of approaching lung delivery of nanoscale particles carrying siRNAs.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2014.884117
Title:Impact of surfactant selection on the formulation and characterization of microparticles for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:E. CocksO. AlparS. SomavarapuD. Greenleaf
Absract:The effect of suspension stabilizers, internal aqueous phase volume and polymer amount were investigated for the production of protein loaded poly(d,llactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) microparticles suitable for pulmonary drug delivery. PLGA microparticles were produced adopting water-in-oil-in-water (W/O/W) solvent evaporation technique and were investigated for surface morphology, particle size, encapsulation efficiency (EE%) and in-vitro release profile. Porous surface morphologies with a narrow size distribution were observed when employing 0.5ml internal aqueous phase; 23.04μm (±0.98), 15.05μm (±0.27) and 22.89μm (±0.41) for PVA, Tween 80 and oleic acid. Porous microparticles exhibited increased size and reduction in EE% with increasing internal aqueous phase, with non-porous microparticles produced when adopting 2.0ml internal aqueous phase. The selection of stabilizer influences the size of the pores formed thus offers potential for the aerodynamic properties of the microparticles to be manipulated to achieve suitable aerosolization characteristics for pulmonary delivery of proteins.

doi:10.1586/17512433.2014.908117
Title:Flunisolide for the treatment of asthma
Authors:A.S. Melani
Absract:Inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) are recommended for treatment of persistent asthma. Several ICSs are available and delivered by a variety of devices. After the banning of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), a formulation of hydrofluoroalkane (HFA)-flunisolide marketed with an in-built spacer has been developed, complying with the request of efficacy and safety for children and adults. It delivers an aerosol with mass median aerodynamic diameter smaller than that of the CFC-formulation (1.2 vs 3.8 m). The extrafine aerosol and the add-on spacer are peculiarities of HFA-flunisolide with respect to the traditional ICSs, assuring larger lung deposition, lower oro-pharyngeal dose and targeting small airways. HFA-flunisolide with the spacer is effective at one-third the dose of CFC-flunisolide delivered without spacer. HFA-flunisolide may be considered an effective alternative to currently available ICSs for asthma management of adult and pediatric patients 6 years of age and older. © 2014 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.nano.2012.04.005
Title:Poly-lactide-co-glycolide nanoparticles containing voriconazole for pulmonary delivery: In vitro and in vivo study
Authors:B. SinhaB. MukherjeeG. Pattnaik
Absract:Poly-lactide-co-glycolide nanoparticles (207-605 nm) containing voriconazole (VNPs) were developed using a multiple-emulsification technique and were also made porous during preparation in presence of an effervescent mixture for improved pulmonary delivery. Pulmonary deposition of the particles was studied using a customized inhalation chamber. VNPs had a maximum of 30% (w/w) drug loading and a zeta potential (ZP) value around - 20 mV. In the initial 2 hours, 20% of the drug was released from VNPs, followed by sustained release for 15 days. Porous particles had a lower mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) than nonporous particles. Porous particles produced the highest initial drug deposition (~. 120 μg/g of tissue). The drug was detectable in lungs until 7 days and 5 days after administration, for porous and nonporous particles, respectively. VNPs with improved drug loading were successfully delivered to murine lungs. Porous nanoparticles with lower MMADs showed better pulmonary deposition and sustained presence in lungs. From the Clinical Editor: In this paper, voriconazole-containing porous nanoparticles were studied for inhalational delivery to lung infections in a murine model, demonstrating prolonged half-life and improved pulmonary deposition. © 2013 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.jaerosci.2011.02.002
Title:Agglomerate strength and dispersion of pharmaceutical powders
Authors:S. AdiH. AdiH.-K. ChanW.H. FinlayZ. TongR. YangA. Yu
Absract:This study aims to investigate quantitatively the direct correlation between the mechanical strength of powder agglomerates and their dispersion into aerosols by a dry powder inhaler. Agglomerates of mannitol as a model drug-only formulation were prepared by a rolling method followed by exposure to various relative humidity (RH: 55%, 82%, 86% and 90%). The agglomerate strength was obtained from the compression of single agglomerates at a selected speed rate using an Instron testing machine. The dispersion performance (FPF@sub_beginLoaded@sub_end) was determined at flow rates of 60 and 100lmin@sup_begin-1@sup_end using an Aeroliser@sup_begin®@sup_end coupled to a multistage liquid impinger. Results showed an inverse linear relationship between the agglomerate strength and the dispersion performance. An increase in strength from 3 to 183kPa resulted in a significant drop (P<0.05) of 18% in the FPF@sub_beginLoaded@sub_end. Agglomerates containing 'solid bridges' exhibited higher strength (three to eight times) and lower FPF (5-15%, corresponding to 86% and 90% RH) compared to those containing 'liquid bridges'. These results have provided direct information on the agglomerate strength and its quantitative relationship with powder aerosol performance. © 2011 Elsevier Ltd.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(97)00115-4
Title:In vitro evaluation of dry powder inhalers II: Influence of carrier particle size and concentration on in vitro deposition
Authors:H. SteckelB.W. Müller
Absract:Dry powders and their delivery devices are an alternative to pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDI) for the administration of aerosols to the lungs. Generally dry powder aerosols are formulated by mixing a cohesive micronized drug with larger carrier particles resulting in an interactive powder mixture. Redispersion of the drug from agglomerates or the carrier surface during inhalation is a critical factor which greatly influences the fine particle fraction (particles < 6.4 μm) to be achieved. Two devices, the single-unit-dose Spinhaler(TM) (Fisons) and the multiple-unit-dose Easyhaler(TM) (Orion Pharma) were used to investigate the influence of dry powder formulation on the deposition of interactive mixtures. Following the scheme of a 3@sup_begin2@sup_end-factorial design budesonide was mixed with lactose-α-monohydrate varying the lactose sieve fractions and the drug to carrier proportion. The in vitro deposition of these mixtures was determined using a Twin Stage Impinger (Apparatus A, BP 93) and compared to control experiments performed with unsieved drug carrier. Deposition was found to be highly dependent on the dry powder formulation. Fine particle fractions from 10 up to 50% were observed. The Easyhaler(TM) shows little differences compared to the Spinhaler(TM) device.

doi:10.1046/j.1525-1594.2003.07244.x
Title:The effect of cyclodextrins on the in vitro and in vivo properties of insulin-loaded poly (D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) microspheres
Authors:J.M. Rodrigues JúniorK.D.M. LimaC.E. De Matos JensenM.M.G. De AguiarA. Da Silva Cunha Júnior
Absract:In this work we describe the development and characterization of a new formulation of insulin (INS). Insulin was complexed with cyclodextrins (CD) in order to improve its solubility and stability being available as a dry powder, after encapsulation into poly (D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microspheres. The complex INS : CD was encapsulated into microspheres in order to obtain particles with an average diameter between 2 and 6 μm. This system was able to induce significant reduction of the plasma glucose level in two rodent models, normal mice and diabetic rats, after intratracheal administration.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:Exploring in vitro deposition of pharmaceutical aerosols in the Alberta idealized throat
Authors:C.A. RuzyckiA.R. MartinW.H. Finlay
Absract:The development of accurate in vitro in vivo correlations requires the careful consideration of a number of issues. Here we explore the effects of inhaler insertion angle and relative humidity on deposition in the Alberta Idealized Throat and a downstream filter. Deposition from three dry powder inhalers (Pulmicort Turbuhaler, Budelin Novolizer, and Easyhaler Budesonide) was examined using inhalerspecific semi-realistic inhalation curves at two insertion angles, one with the inhaler held at 0° relative to horizontal (directed towards the tongue), the other with the inhaler held at 29° (directed toward the back of the oral cavity). Further, the effects of both insertion angle (as above) and relative humidity (at low, 15-25%, and high, 95- 100%, conditions) were examined on deposition of hygroscopic aerosols from two pressurized metered dose inhalers (QVAR and Ventolin Evohaler) and one soft mist inhaler (Respimat), all operated at 30 L/min. The only inhalers showing sensitivity to the insertion angle were Easyhaler Budesonide and Ventolin Evohaler, with each inhaler demonstrating increased deposition in the mouth-throat at the 0° insertion angle. For the metered dose and soft mist inhalers, humidity showed no significant effects on deposition in the throat or downstream filter, indicating that the total dose delivered to the lungs is relatively insensitive to ambient humidity at room temperature for these formulations. Environmental/Occupational Health/Toxicology.

doi:10.1016/j.drudis.2015.04.007
Title:Propofol as a transformative drug in anesthesia: insights from key early investigators
Authors:B.T. BatemanA.S. Kesselheim
Absract:To study the process of drug development in anesthesiology, we identified what expert anesthesiologists considered the most transformative new product in the field over the past 25 years - propofol (Diprivan®) - and conducted an in-depth qualitative study into the features of its development. Experts with insights into propofol development were subjected to semi-structured interviews about their experiences with the drug. We found a number of important themes helped contribute to its discovery, such as positive aspects of the environment at Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI). Individual anesthesiologists outside the company took a central role in driving the development process forward and ultimately making the product transformative. This episode provides lessons for drug developers interested in promoting similar transformative drug innovation.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2014.03.006
Title:Controlling the droplet size of formulations nebulized by vibrating-membrane technology
Authors:M. Beck-BroichsitterM.-C. KnuedelerW. SeegerT. Schmehl
Absract:Manipulation of aerosol characteristics is of special interest for pulmonary therapy, as a suitable particle size optimizes pulmonary deposition. The present study investigated the impact of formulation variables on the aerodynamic particle diameter (d@sub_begina@sub_end) when nebulized by vibrating-membrane technology. Membranes implemented in the Aeroneb® Pro and eFlow®rapid nebulizer revealed difference in metal composition and nozzle morphology as determined by energy dispersive X-ray measurements and scanning electron microscopy. Laser diffraction analysis of generated aerosol droplets identified the conductivity and dynamic viscosity of formulations as parameters with significant influence on the d@sub_begina@sub_end for both nebulizers. Accordingly, sample supplementation with particular excipients (conductivity: >50 μS/cm, dynamic viscosity: >1.5 mPa s) facilitated a reduction of the d@sub_begina@sub_end from ≥8 μm, which is clearly in conflict with inhalative drug delivery, to respirable d@sub_begina@sub_end as small as ∼3 μm. Overall, controlling the d@sub_begina@sub_end of formulations nebulized by vibrating-membrane technology seems to be technical feasible by an adequate adaption of samples' physicochemical properties. The Aeroneb® Pro and eFlow®rapid device are both qualified for the production of respirable aerosol clouds from specified formulations. © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3109/08982100903085150
Title:Generation of liposome aerosols with the Aeroneb Pro and the AeroProbe nebulizers
Authors:M.M. GasparO. GobboC. Ehrhardt
Absract:Background: Inhalation of therapeutic aerosols is a long-established means of drug delivery to the lungs or to the systemic circulation. In addition to solutions, suspensions, and particulates, liposomal formulations are being developed for aerosol administration. In this report, we investigated the membrane integrity of liposomes encapsulating the fluorescent model compound, calcein, after nebulization using two novel aerosolization devices, the Aeroneb Pro vibrating-mesh nebulizer (Aerogen, Dangan, Ireland) and the AeroProbe intracorporeal nebulizing catheter (Trudell Medical Corporation, London, Ontario, Canada). Materials and Methods: The influence of lipid composition and lamellarity on the stability of the vesicles was investigated by measuring changes in median diameter, ζ-potential, and calcein retention. Results: Both nebulizers were able to successfully aerosolise 1.5mL of liposome suspension in a short period of time. The diameter and ζ-potential of the liposomes was preserved upon nebulization, and the calcein retention was above 70% in all cases. Conclusions: It can, hence, be concluded that both systems, the Aeroneb Pro and the AeroProbe, are well suited for the pulmonary delivery of liposomal formulations, with the AeroProbe having the additional advantage of allowing targeted delivery into the select regions of the lungs with a high degree of efficiency and control.

doi:10.1016/0731-7085(90)80059-X
Title:French and/or European perspectives on biopharmaceutical characterization of drug dosage forms
Authors:J.-M. Aiache
Absract:In order to bring definitions of drug dosage forms up to date, it was necessary for the French Pharmacopoeia to propose assays allowing the quality control of the dosage forms to be based on the kinetics of drug release in vitro. Currently, five examples can be cited of dosage forms that can be characterized by release in vitro. (1) Oral solid dosage forms - for tablets, all the parameters of powders before compression (e.g. flowability, tableting properties) are being studied in addition to the dissolution tests. (2) Rectal dosage forms - the disintegration test of suppositories will be discarded and a new dissolution test using a special flow-through cell is now being studied. (3) Inhalations - since particle diameter is the most important factor for inhalation activity, a method has been developed to give the correct answer to this question. (4) Modified release drug dosage forms - these have been defined separately from the conventional forms. For the peroral route, they are: (i) accelerated release drug dosage forms, (ii) sustained release drug dosage forms and (iii) delayed release drug dosage forms. To emphasize the differences in the release kinetics, use of the paddle method, well known in the USP, and the flow-through cell has been suggested and described in the European Pharmacopoeia. Some associations and/or in vitro-in vivo correlations have increased the interest in the last method. (5) Transdermal delivery systems - these are defined separately from plaster and sticking-plaster. The use of a cell method was suggested to study the drug release and some comparisons between different techniques are presented.

doi:10.25258/ijddt.9.1.14
Title:Development of carrageenan polymer for encapsulation of ciprofloxacin hcl: In vitro characterization
Authors:D.M. HariyadiE. HendradiN. Sharon
Absract:This study reported the properties of microspheres based Carrageenan polymers with Ciprofloxacin HCl antibiotic as a model for dry powder inhalation (DPI). Microspheres Ciprofloxacin-Carrageenan was prepared through ionic gelation process which is a widely used microencapsulation technique in the pharmaceutical industry. Microspheres formula consists of formula using 0.5 and 1% carragenan polymer and 0.2 and 0.6% KCl crosslinker which was named as F1, F2, F3 and F4. Microspheres were characterized for their yield, morphology, entrapment efficiency, drug loading and particle size. Results revealed that ionic gelation technique was a suitable technique for preparation of microspheres as most of the formulations were small in size, spherical in shape with a good yield of 46% to 89%. Based on the data of various evaluations such as drug entrapment efficiency, drug loading and particle size, formula F3 was found as the best DPI formula. Microspheres were successfully prepared and this study can be concluded that the developed microspheres of ciprofloxacin HCl-Carrageenan can be used for pulmonary system to improve the release mechanism and drug bioavailability.

pui:625433377
Title:Insulin pulmonary delivery
Authors:P. Kumar JainY. Shrivastav
Absract:The long-term benefits of providing intensive insulin therapy to control blood glucose levels have been demonstrated in patients with diabetes. A number of attempts have been made to develop new ways of delivering insulin which, without the need for subcutaneous injections, may help increase the adoption of insulin treatment by diabetes patients. The most promising non-invasive route of insulin delivery is via the lung. The pulmonary route of administration offers several advantages. First, the lung has a large surface area for drug absorption, ranging from 100 to 140 m2 . In addition, the alveolar epithelium has permeability that allows for rapid absorption of solutes. Because the mucociliary clearance of the alveolar lung tissue is slower than that of the bronchiolar tissues, the alveoli provide a greater opportunity for the absorption of larger molecules (e.g., insulin). Researcher said that particle size should be between 1 and 3 micrometres in diameter for optimal deposition in the lung, and that dry powder formulation can deliver more active drug in a single inhalation than liquid aerosol formulations. The pharmacodynamic effects of insulin formulations administered via the lung are comparable to, or even faster than, those of subcutaneous injected regular insulin or rapid-acting insulin analogues.

doi:10.1097/JDN.0000000000000400
Title:Brimonidine
Authors:B. LimoneJ. Luke
Absract:A drug is a particular substance in physiology that exerts an effect when ingested or otherwise introduced into the body. Drugs may be administered in a variety of constitutions from capsules, injections, creams, and ointments to inhalants, liquids, and dermal patches; via different routes, namely, topical, parenteral, and inhalation; and via injection routes such as subcutaneous, intramuscular, or intravenous. The purpose of this column is to highlight some of the more commonly encountered drugs in dermatology. More specifically, this column will bring further understanding to the mechanism of action, administration, dosage, adverse effects, and viable alternatives to each particular drug being discussed. In this article, the role of the drug brimonidine tartrate, as a dermatologic treatment for erythema associated with rosacea, will be discussed.

doi:10.1155/2018/4568903
Title:Rethinking the viability and utility of inhaled insulin in clinical practice
Authors:L. HeinemannC.G. Parkin
Absract:Despite considerable advances in pharmacotherapy and self-monitoring technologies in the last decades, a large percentage of adults with diabetes remain unsuccessful in achieving optimal glucose due to suboptimal medication adherence. Contributors to suboptimal adherence to insulin treatment include pain, inconvenience, and regimen complexity; however, a key driver is hypoglycemia. Improvements in the PK/PD characteristics of today's SC insulins provide more physiologic coverage of basal and prandial insulin requirements than regular human insulin; however, they do not achieve the rapid on/rapid off characteristics of endogenously secreted insulin seen in healthy, nondiabetic individuals. Pulmonary administration of prandial insulin represents an attractive option that overcomes limitations of SC insulin by providing more a rapid onset of action and a faster return of action to baseline levels than SC administration of rapid-acting insulin analogs. This article reviews the unique PK/PD properties of a novel inhaled formulation that support its use in patient populations with T1D or T2D.

doi:10.2217/nnm-2016-0305
Title:Recent advances in green nanoparticulate systems for drug delivery: Efficient delivery and safety concern
Authors:P.-L. LamW.-Y. WongZ. BianC.-H. ChuiR. Gambari
Absract:Nanotechnology manipulates therapeutic agents at the nanoscale for the development of nanomedicines. However, there are current concerns over nanomedicines, mainly related to the possible toxicity of nanomaterials used for health medications. Due to their small size, they can enter the human body more readily than larger sized particles. Green chemistry encompasses the green synthesis of drug-loaded nanoparticles by reducing the use of hazardous materials in the synthesis process, thus reducing the adverse health impacts of pharmaceutics. This would greatly expand their potential in biomedical treatments. This review highlights the potential risks of nanomedicine formulations to health, delivery routes of green nanomedicines, recent advances in the development of green nanoscale systems for biomedical applications and future perspectives for the green development of nanomedicines.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(98)00217-8
Title:Effect of formulation factors on the observed bounce in cascade impactors used to measure the spray particle size of metered dose inhalers
Authors:N.C. MillerD.L. RossM.M. Nas
Absract:This study was conducted to investigate the extent of particle reentrainment, or bounce, in cascade impactors used to measure the size of the spray from single and multiple doses of metered dose inhalers (MDIs), and to determine the effect of some common formulation properties on the observed bounce. MDIs were formulated as suspensions or solutions, with varying levels of surfactant. These were fired into two impactors (the Andersen Sampler Mark II and the Marple-Miller model 150), the collection surfaces of which were uncoated or coated with silicone oil or glycerin. The amount of drug from a formulation collected on each stage was determined and comparison was made between results with coated and uncoated stages. Efficacy of the coating for eliminating bounce was demonstrated by comparing single shots with multiple shots. Different ways of describing bounce effects offer varying indications of its significance. The suspension formulations (containing surfactant) all showed evidence of bounce, but solution formulations showed little or none. Silicone oil and glycerin were equally effective in eliminating bounce. Results with impactors of two different designs were similar. Particle bounce was shown to occur with a variety of formulations when impactor stages are not coated. Copyright (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.5958/0974-360X.2021.00318.8
Title:Liposome mediated pulmonary drug delivery system: An updated review
Authors:S. PaulT. RoyA. BoseD. ChatterjeeV.R. ChowdhuryM. RanaA. Das
Absract:Liposomes are the sphere-shaped vesicles consisting of one or more phospholipid bilayers. Structurally the liposomal vesicles are the bilayered vesicles that consist of a core of aqueous solution and a lipid spheres that contain no aqueous material. They are generally made up of phospholipids. Liposomal drug delivery systems have been widely used in pulmonary drug delivery for multiple applications which includes optimum solubilization of active pharmaceutical agents, prolonged period of drug release. Moreover, the site avoidance and site-specific drug targeting therapy could be achieved by the liposomal drug delivery system, to inhibit the tissue toxicity of many potent drug substances. In this present review, formulation aspects of liposomes, various aerosolization methods and the characterization methods of liposome formulation and an extensive overview of the use of liposomes as a pulmonary drug delivery system for the treatment of diseases like tuberculosis and lung cancer and are discussed. Liposomes can be used as a successful drug carrier in the fields like lung infection, tumor targeting, genetic transfer, immunomodulation, skin, and topical therapy.

doi:10.3329/dujps.v15i2.30925
Title:In vitro toxicity study of reconstituted amphotericin B - Lipid derivatives dry powder for nebulization
Authors:K. Adhikari
Absract:The aim of the present research work was to evaluate the safety of reconstituted dry powder amphotericin B (AmB) inhalation via nebulizer. This study was carried out on respiratory cell lines (A549, Calu-3, NR 8383), kidney cells (293T/17), human red blood cells (RBC) and aerosol properties were determined by Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). AmB, a lipid derivative reconstituted dry powder was formulated by lyophilization and reconstituted into distilled water at AmB concentration at 4 mg/ml. The value of MMAD, FPF were obtained as 1.7 to 2.05 µm and 70 to 80%, respectively. The cytotoxicity test carried out by MTT assay of lipid formulations revealed a very low toxicity on respiratory cell lines such as kidney cells, than pure AmB at concentration 1 to 8 µg/ml of AmB. In-vitro cytotoxicity results showed less toxicity to human red blood cells (RBC) than pure AmB at concentration 1 to 8 µg/ml of AmB.

pui:368483105
Title:Optimisation of salbutamol suspension as Metered Dose Inhalation (MDI) and comparison with a marketed MDI suspension
Authors:A. KhaleA. Bajaj
Absract:The direct delivery of therapeutically active drug to the pulmonary tract has proved to be a life saving tool for many Asthmatics. Salbutamol being a drug of choice in severe Asthma attacks, in the present study attempt was made to prepare MDI of Salbutamol in suspension formulation and compare it with the marketed MDI of salbutamol suspension. The proportion of C.F.C. propellant blend (p11 & p12) in 30:70 proportion gave optimum vapor pressure; in the range of 70-75 psig was selected. Oleic acid was selected as a surfactant and its concentration was optimized. A series of physicochemical tests were performed simultaneously on both the preparations. Results were compared. The formulations were further subjected to in-vitro evaluation whereby net respirable fraction was determined. Logic behind this study was to create a better suspension than that available in the market. In all qualitative as well as quantitative tests the formulated suspension was comparable with marketed MDI. However our formulation retained minimum amount of drug (8.57%) on adaptor compared to the marketed preparation (10.40%). This shows the maximum availability of the drug in the pulmonary tract.

doi:10.2174/157339808783497819
Title:Simultaneous characterization of aerodynamic size and electrostatic charge distributions of inhaled dry powder inhaler aerosols
Authors:M. AliR.N. ReddyM.K. Mazumder
Absract:Respiratory drug particles aerosolized from Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) may charge electrostatically. Influence of electrostatic charge and aerodynamic size distributions on the regional deposition of inhaled aerosols in the lung has been acknowledged by the investigators of aerosol medicine research. This in vitro investigation reports a novel method of simultaneous measurement of both electrostatic charge and aerodynamic diameter of the particle in real time. The drug aerosols were generated by three commercially available and often prescribed DPIs by means of inhalation as a bolus at the rate of 30 L/min for 8 s, and then characterized by a Single Particle Aerodynamic Relaxation Time analyzer. The results showed that particles were not only varied sizes but also carried positive, negative and zero electrostatic charges. Aerosols generated by all three DPIs exhibited net electropositively charged. © 2008 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.1073/pnas.0402891101
Title:Delivery of therapeutic levels of heparin and low-molecular-weight heparin through a pulmonary route
Authors:Y. QiG. ZhaoD. LiuZ. ShriverM. SundaramS. SenguptaG. VenkataramanR. LangerR. Sasisekharan
Absract:Although heparin and low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWH) have been widely used clinically as anticoagulants, their broader use has been limited by the lack of noninvasive delivery methods for this class of molecules. In this study, we demonstrate an efficient, rapid, and reproducible delivery system for heparin through the lungs that is not confined to particles of a certain geometric or aerodynamic diameter. Importantly, blood levels after intrapulmonary administration of either heparin or LMWH were comparable to that of s.c. administration but are characterized by a more rapid onset of action (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end = 40 min vs. 2.5 h, respectively). Furthermore, we show in animal models, that inhaled heparin species efficiently inhibit diseases such as thrombosis and emphysema, and that the repetitive inhalation of formulated LMWH results in no observable toxicity from the delivery of reproducible systemic levels of heparin or LMWH.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Inhalable mRNA dry powder formulation with pegylated KL4 peptide delivery system
Authors:Y. QiuC.H. ManJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of messenger RNA (mRNA) has huge potential for the treatment of a range of lung diseases. Inhaled dry powder formulation of mRNA is particularly attractive because it could improve the stability of the nucleic acids and the dry powder inhalers are relatively easy to use. A safe and effective mRNA delivery vector as well as a suitable particle engineering method are required for the production of inhalable mRNA powder formulations. To address these issues, we developed a new mRNA vector by modifying the KL4 peptide, which was previously investigated for RNA delivery. The PEG12KL4 peptide could form complexes with the mRNA and we successfully formulated them into dry powder by a spray freeze drying (SFD) technique. The SFD powder exhibited satisfactory aerosol properties for inhalation, with fine particle fraction (FPF) over 60%. More importantly, the biological activity of the PEG12KL4/mRNA complexes were successfully preserved after drying as demonstrated in both in vitro and in vivo transfection studies using luciferase mRNA. Both the liquid and powder aerosol of PEG12KL4/mRNA complexes achieved high luciferase expression in the deep lung region at 24 h following intratracheal administration in mice.

doi:10.4103/0250-474X.180261
Title:Development of an inhaled sustained release dry powder formulation of salbutamol sulphate, an antiasthmatic drug
Authors:C. KumaresanK. Sathishkumar
Absract:The present research was aimed to develop and characterize a sustained release dry powder inhalable formulation of salbutamol sulphate. The salbutamol sulphate microparticles were prepared by solvent evaporation method using biodegradable polymer poly (D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) to produce salbutamol sulphate microparticle mixed with carrier respirable grade lactose for oral inhalation of dry powder. The drug content were estimated to produce 1 mg sustained release salbutamol sulphate per dose. Total four formulations K1, K2, K3 and K4 were prepared with 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4 ratio of salbutamol sulphate:poly (D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid). The developed formulations were studied for physicochemical properties, in vitro drug relase and Anderson cascade impaction studies. The prepared formulations effectively releases drug for 12 h in diffusion bag studies. Based on dissolution performance the 1:1 ratio of salbutamol sulphate:poly (D,L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) produces in vitrorelease 92.57% at 12 h and having particle size of microparticles (D@sub_begin0.5@sub_endμm) 5.02±0.6 and the pulmonary deposition of dry powder 34.5±3.21 (respiratory fraction in percentage).

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.04.006
Title:DEM analysis of the effect of particle-wall impact on the dispersion performance in carrier-based dry powder inhalers
Authors:J. YangC.-Y. WuM. Adams
Absract:Abstract The impact between particles or agglomerates and a device wall is considered as an important mechanism controlling the dispersion of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particles in dry powder inhalers (DPIs). In order to characterise the influencing factors and better understand the impact induced dispersion process for carrier-based DPIs, the impact behaviour between an agglomerate and a wall is systematically investigated using the discrete element method. In this study, a carrier-based agglomerate is initially formed and then allowed to impact with a target wall. The effects of impact velocity, impact angle and work of adhesion on the dispersion performance are analysed. It is shown that API particles in the near-wall regions are more likely to be dispersed due to the deceleration of the carrier particle resulted from the impact with the wall. It is also revealed that the dispersion ratio increases with increasing impact velocity and impact angle, indicating that the normal component of the impact velocity plays a dominant role on the dispersion. Furthermore, the impact induced dispersion performance for carrier-based DPI formulations can be well approximated using a cumulative Weibull distribution function that is governed by the ratio of overall impact energy and adhesion energy.

pui:44213242
Title:Inhaled iloprost as a long-term additional therapy to oral sildenafil in severe idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:Z.P. ÖnenÖ. Akkoca YildizB. Eriş GülbayG. Karabiyikoǧlu
Absract:Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) is an uncommon and devastating disease which, if untreated, progresses rapidly and leads to right heart failure and death. The course of the disease has been altered by advances in medical therapies. However, the effects of long-term alternative therapies and responses to each treatment protocols are not definite. We want to define an IPAH case, which had long-term temporary responses to the conventional therapy plus calcium channel blockers treatment and moreover compared the long-term clinical and physiologic effects of oral sildenafil mono therapy and additional inhaled iloprost therapy. Patients with IPAH may have response to a short-term vasodilatation therapy but they have to follow for the long-term results and may be of benefit from combination treatments.

doi:10.1208/s12249-019-1314-2
Title:Delivery Technologies for Orally Inhaled Products: an Update
Authors:C. MoonH.D.C. SmythA.B. WattsR.O. Williams
Absract:Orally inhaled products have well-known benefits. They allow for effective local administration of many drugs for the treatment of pulmonary disease, and they allow for rapid absorption and avoidance of first-pass metabolism of several systemically acting drugs. Several challenges remain, however, such as dosing limitations, low and variable deposition of the drug in the lungs, and high drug deposition in the oropharynx region. These challenges have stimulated the development of new delivery technologies. Both formulation improvements and new device technologies have been developed through an improved understanding of the mechanisms of aerosolization and lung deposition. These new advancements in formulations have enabled improved aerosolization by controlling particle properties such as density, size, shape, and surface energy. New device technologies emerging in the marketplace focus on minimizing patient errors, expanding the range of inhaled drugs, improving delivery efficiency, increasing dose consistency and dosage levels, and simplifying device operation. Many of these new technologies have the potential to improve patient compliance. This article reviews how new delivery technologies in the form of new formulations and new devices enhance orally inhaled products.

doi:10.1586/17476348.2016.1161508
Title:Inhaled beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate extrafine fixed combination for the treatment of asthma
Authors:E. CrisafulliA. ZaniniG. PisiP. PignattiG. PoliM. ScuriA. Chetta
Absract:Inhaled therapy is often considered the cornerstone of asthma management and international guidelines recommend combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-acting-beta2-agonists (LABA) in a large proportion of asthmatic patients. The effectiveness of ICS/LABA is dependent on the correct choice of device and proper inhalation technique, this influences drug delivery and distribution along the bronchial tree, including the most peripheral airways. The fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate (BDP/FF) is the only extrafine formulation available in pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) and in dry powder inhaler (DPI). Here, we focus on the recent significant advances regarding BDP/FF fixed combination for the treatment of asthma.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2005.02.004
Title:The influence of dose on the performance of dry powder inhalation systems
Authors:P.M. YoungS. EdgeD. TrainiM.D. JonesR. PriceD. El-SabawiC. UrryC. Smith
Absract:The relationship between drug/lactose ratio and aerosolisation performance of conventional carrier based formulations was investigated using the twin stage impinger. A dose range of ∼10-450 μg of drug in a 50 mg lactose carrier formulation was studied. Statistical differences in both the fine particle dose and fine particle fraction were observed across the dosage range (ANOVA, p < 0.05). In general, no statistically significant difference (Fishers Pairwise, p < 0.05) in fine particle dose was observed between drug levels of approximately 10 μg and 135 μg, whereas a linear decrease in fine particle fraction was observed across the same drug level range (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.977). Increasing the dose from ∼135 μg to 450 μg resulted in a statistically significant increase in both fine particle dose and fraction (ANOVA p < 0.05). Such observations may be attributed to the occupation of 'active' carrier sites by drug particles at low drug concentration, since the quantity of drug particles liberated from the carrier during aerosolisation remains constant at the lower dosing regimes. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1152/jappl.1994.77.5.2057
Title:Aerosolized deferoxamine prevents lung and systemic injury caused by smoke inhalation
Authors:C. LaLondeK. IkegamiR. Demling
Absract:We assessed the role of oxidant release at the airway mucosal surface on airway injury and systemic response to a severe smoke insult. Adult sheep (n = 20) were insufflated with well-characterized smoke from burning cotton toweling. A standardized dose of 12 breaths of smoke with a tidal volume of 20 ml/kg was given under anesthesia. Sheep were awakened, monitored for 24 h, and killed; data were compared with control sheep. Sheep were given 1) humidified oxygen, 2) continuous aerosol of 10% deferoxamine (DFO)- pentastarch solution beginning after smoke, 3) DFO-alone aerosol, or 4) pentastarch-alone aerosol. DFO has antioxidant properties directly and chelates iron. Severe respiratory failure occurred in all but DFO pentastarch group. Shunt fraction increased from a control of 4%. Histological assessment revealed severe airway mucosal edema, ulceration, bronchorrhea, and severe atelectasis but only moderate alveolar edema. Increased lipid peroxides were also noted in free airway fluid and in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. In addition, oxygen consumption increased by 75%, fluid requirements increased threefold, and protein-rich systemic soft tissue lymph flow doubled, all significant increases compared with control sheep. No significant physiological or histological changes were noted in DFO-pentastarch aerosol group. We conclude that 1) oxidants possibly initiated through free iron release are involved in severe smoke-induced airway injury and resulting systemic inflammatory response, probably through an amplified oxidant injury and 2) an aerosol of a DFO-pentastarch complex prevents the injury process, whereas DFO alone is not effective as an aerosol.

doi:10.2217/fmb-2018-0194
Title:Antibiotic-nanomedicines: Facing the challenge of effective treatment of antibiotic-resistant respiratory tract infections
Authors:J.A.S. RitsemaH. Van Der WeideY.M. Te WelscherW.H.F. GoessensC.F. Van NostrumG. StormI.A.J.M. Bakker-WoudenbergJ.P. Hays
Absract:Respiratory tract infections are one of the most frequent infections worldwide, with an increasing number being associated with (multiple) antibiotic-resistant pathogens. Improved treatment requires the development of new therapeutic strategies, including the possible development of antibiotic-nanomedicines. Antibiotic-nanomedicines comprise antibiotic molecules coupled to nanocarriers via surface adsorption, surface attachment, entrapment or conjugation and can be administered via aerosolization. The efficacy and tolerability of this approach has been shown in clinical studies, with amikacin liposome inhalation suspension being the first inhalatory antibiotic-nanomedicine approved by the US FDA. In this special report, we summarize and discuss the potential value and the clinical status of antibiotic-nanomedicines for the treatment of (antibiotic-resistant) respiratory tract infections.

doi:10.2217/nnm.11.122
Title:Liposomes as drug delivery systems for the treatment of TB
Authors:M. PinheiroM. LcioJ.L.F.C. LiM.A.S. Reis
Absract:TB is an infectious disease that is far from being eradicated and controlled. The treatment for TB is associated with noncompliance to therapy because it consists of a long-term treatment with a multidrug combination and is associated with the appearance of several side effects. Liposomal formulations are being developed with first- and second-line antibiotics, and might be an extremely useful alternative to current therapies. This article will thus focus on the role of liposomes as nanodelivery systems for the treatment of TB. Among several advantages, these nanocarriers allow an increase in the bioavailability of antibiotics, which may lead to a reduction in the time of treatment. Results obtained with such nanosystems, although preliminary, are promising and are perspective of the use of inhalation for TB treatment. © 2011 Future Medicine Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2006.09.052
Title:Kinetics of the immune response to the (F1 + V) vaccine in models of bubonic and pneumonic plague
Authors:E.D. WilliamsonA.J. StaggS.M. EleyR. TaylorM. GreenS.M. JonesR.W. Titball
Absract:Protection against aerosol challenge with >300 MLD of Yersinia pestis was observed 7 days after a single immunisation of mice with the F1 + V vaccine. At day 60, mice were protected against injected challenge (10@sup_begin7@sup_end MLD) in a vaccine dose-related manner. Recall responses to rV in splenocytes ex vivo at day 98 correlated significantly (p < 0.001) with the immunising dose-level of V antigen; no memory response or anti-V serum IgG was detected in killed whole cell vaccine (KWCV) recipients. This may explain the susceptibility of KWCV recipients to aerosol challenge and the enhanced protection conferred by the F1 + V sub-unit vaccine, particularly since the anti-F1 responses induced by either vaccine were similarly IgG1-polarised. Crown Copyright © 2006.

doi:10.1016/j.jpba.2004.02.039
Title:An HPLC method for quantitation of perillyl alcohol in a topical pharmaceutical cream formulation
Authors:A. GuptaS.P. StrattonP.B. Myrdal
Absract:A reverse phase high performance liquid chromatographic method for quantitation of perillyl alcohol in a topical cream pharmaceutical formulation was developed. Previously reported methods for analyzing drugs in lipid formulations are relatively complex and time consuming, with extraction, purification and derivatization involved. Through a simple dilution of the cream formulation in isopropyl alcohol, the present assay method enables the direct injection of the samples, on an Alltima C18 5 μ, 150 mm × 2.1 mm, narrow bore column (Alltech Associates, Deerfield, IL). The method includes an isocratic run with acetonitrile-water (40:60, v/v) at 0.35 mL/min for 12 min, followed by a gradient wash with isopropyl alcohol for 20 min, to ensure that all formulation excipients are eluted. Ultraviolet detection was performed at 210 nm with a retention time for perillyl alcohol of 7 min. The high sensitivity assay utilizes a small (5 μL) injection volume for the accurate and precise analysis of perillyl alcohol from a complex cream formulation. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:14203553
Title:New aspects of oral theophylline
Authors:N. Svedmyr
Absract:Phosphodiesterase inhibition is not the relevant mode of action of theophylline in bronchial asthma. This is well in line with the clinical findings that β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists and theophylline have only an additive bronchodilatory effect. During recent years adenosine blockade has been suggested as the mechanism of action in asthma. The mechanism seems, however, also to be of no importance in the bronchodilating effect of xanthines. Structure/activity studies of different xanthine derivatives have shown that substitution in the 1-position is apparently essential for adenosine receptor antagonism. Substitution in the 3-position increases anti-asthmatic activity, while substitution in the 7-position decreases anti-asthmatic and toxic potency. A new xanthine derivative, 3-propylxanthine (enprofylline) does not block the adenosine receptors, but has about 5 times the bronchodilating potency of theophylline and is devoid of theophylline-like CNS-stimulating, diuretic and tremorogenic effects. These effects seem, therefore, to be mediated by adenosine blockade; but this adenosine blockade may, in fact, be unfavourable as the consistent and pronounced effect of adenosine in isolated tracheal smooth muscle appears to be relaxation. A low dosage combination of theophylline and β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists gives satisfactory bronchodilation with less side effects than a higher dose of a β@sub_begin2@sub_end-stimulant alone. In patients who despite a good inhaling technique cannot adequately control their asthma by inhalation of β@sub_begin2@sub_end-stimulants alone a combination with moderate doses of an oral slow release theophylline preparation with good bioavailability seems to give maximum bronchodilatation with a minimum of side effects and risks.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2016.01.016
Title:Targeted pulmonary delivery of inducers of host macrophage autophagy as a potential host-directed chemotherapy of tuberculosis
Authors:A. GuptaA. MisraV. Deretic
Absract:One of the promising host-directed chemotherapeutic interventions in tuberculosis (TB) is based on inducing autophagy as an immune effector. Here we consider the strengths and weaknesses of potential autophagy-based pharmacological intervention. Using the existing drugs that induce autophagy is an option, but it has limitations given the broad role of autophagy in most cells, tissues, and organs. Thus, it may be desirable that the agent being used to modulate autophagy is applied in a targeted manner, e.g. delivered to affected tissues, with infected macrophages being an obvious choice. This review addresses the advantages and disadvantages of delivering drugs to induce autophagy in M. tuberculosis-infected macrophages. One option, already being tested in models, is to design particles for inhalation delivery to lung macrophages. The choice of drugs, drug release kinetics and intracellular residence times, non-target cell exposure and feasibility of use by patients is discussed. We term here this (still experimental) approach, of compartment-targeting, autophagy-based, host-directed therapy as "Track-II antituberculosis chemotherapy.".

pui:39248158
Title:Inhaled tobramycin improves lung function and bacterial density associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections in patients with cystic fibrosis
Authors:A. GuptaA. MisraV. Deretic
Absract:Tobramycin solution for inhalation (TSI) is specifically formulated for nebulisation to effectively deliver tobramycin to the lungs, while maintaining low serum concentrations of the drug, thus reducing the risk of systemic toxicity. It is approved for the management of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in patients with cystic fibrosis. Intermittent treatment with TSI improved lung function and reduced sputum P. aeruginosa density relative to placebo in well designed trials in patients (aged ≥6 years) with cystic fibrosis. TSI also reduced P. aeruginosa density in the lower airways of patients aged <6 years with early bacterial colonisation. In clinical trials, the drug was generally well tolerated, did not cause nephrotoxicity or ototoxicity, and was associated with a rate of transient bronchospasm similar to that with placebo. © 2004 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

pui:37207244
Title:Farnesol for aerosol inhalation: Nebulization and activity against human lung cancer cells
Authors:Z. WangH.T. ChenW. RoaW.H. Finlay
Absract:Purpose: A nebulized aerosol formulation of the anti-cancer agent farnesol is developed and shown to induce cell death of human lung cancer cells in vitro. Methods: A nebulized farnesol formulation containing polysorbate 80 (Tween 80) is developed. The measurements of the aerosol properties during nebulization were used as input for a mathematical model of airway surface liquid in the lung of an average adult, to estimate the airway surface liquid drug concentration of the deposited farnesol. Cytotoxicity of the formulations was measured in vitro on non-small cell lung cancer cells (H460 and A549). Results: As much as 100% of lung cancer cytotoxicity can be achieved by using Pari LC Star and LC Plus nebulizers. The estimated airway surface liquid concentrations of the deposited farnesol reveal that the IC50 of the nebulized farnesol can be achieved over the entire tracheobronchial region, using the above Pari nebulizers with a volume fill of 5 ml. Conclusions: Drug concentrations higher than IC50 in the airway surface liquid are predicted with our methods, suggesting in vivo trials of a formulation may be warranted with these particular nebulizers.

pui:14096018
Title:Halothane dissolved in fat as an intravenous anaesthetic to rats
Authors:G. JohannessonP. AlmB. Biber
Absract:The anaesthetic properties of a halothane-in-fat solution given either a single i.v. dose or as a continuous i.v. infusion were investigated in rats. 0.3 ml of a 5% solution of halothane in a fat emulsion was injected i.v. into 15 awake rats. At the end of the 30 s injection, all rats had collapsed from the upright position and showed no response to a firmly applied tail clamp. Breathing usually became shallow and irregular just after injection. Two rats died. In the surviving rats, movement in response to clamping of the tail reappeared after some 30 s (range 15-90 s). The rats regained the upright position after about 100 s, and appeared fully awake about 3 min (range 2-5 min) after injection. Surviving rats behaved normally after the experiment, and gained in weight. They were killed 1-29 days later. The lungs, kidneys, heart, brain and liver had a normal macroscopic and microscopic appearance. In a second set of experiments (n = 9), a 10% solution of halothane was continuously infused i.v. (3.75 μl min@sup_begin-1@sup_end). The anaesthetic depth, as well as the mean arterial pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and arterial P(CO2) and P(O2) were similar to values observed during inhalation of halothane in air at an inspired concentration of 1.1%. By doubling the infusion rate, MAP was reduced by 23%. It was easy to adjust anaesthetic depth by changing the infusion rate and recovery was fast.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666150416100800
Title:Formulation strategies and particle engineering technologies for pulmonary delivery of biopharmaceuticals
Authors:D. CunF. WanM. Yang
Absract:Biopharmaceuticals including recombinant proteins, monoclonal antibody and nucleic acid based therapeutics have become more and more important to improve the quality of life of patients. However, the administration of biopharmaceuticals was mainly limited to parenteral routes and their delivery remains the most significant challeng to their clinical adoption due to their unfavorable intrinsic physicochemical properties. Among noninvasive administration routes the lung has been attempted intensively to be an alternative to injection to deliver the biopharmaceuticals, and has shown to be promising. In this review we discussed the formulation strategies and particle engineering technologies to improve the efficiency of pulmonary delivery of biopharmaceutical, with a focus on systemic therapy of pharmaceutical proteins/peptides and local delivery of siRNA via the lung administration.

doi:10.1016/s0195-5616(01)50103-5
Title:Strategies for management of acute renal failure
Authors:M.A. Labato
Absract:In summary, ARF carries with it a gradual to poor prognosis. If recognized early and aggressively treated, it may be reversible.

doi:10.1016/S0264-410X(00)00503-X
Title:A powder formulation of measles vaccine for aerosol delivery
Authors:C. LiCalsiM.J. ManiaciT. ChristensenE. PhillipsG.H. WardC. Witham
Absract:Both the mortality rate for measles and the risks associated with injection continue to be high in the developing world. In response to the need for safe, cost-effective vaccine delivery technologies, a powder formulation of measles vaccine has been developed to test the feasibility of administering measles vaccine as an aerosol. The first challenge in aerosol formulation development is to produce fine particles without damaging the activity of the virus or inducing physical changes. In this study, live attenuated measles vaccine is micronized by jet milling to generate particle sizes appropriate for pulmonary delivery (1-5 μm). Milling does not induce detectable physical changes and significant viral potency is maintained. Potency retention of milled vaccine ranges from 31 to 89%, demonstrating that the standard dose of vaccine can easily be achieved. Following size reduction, particles are blended with an inert carrier to improve handling and aerosol dispersion. The measles vaccine formulation is dispersible, as shown by laser light particle size analysis of vaccine aerosols. Thus, evaluation of both the potency retention and the aerosol characteristics of the current formulation clearly demonstrates the feasibility of delivering measles vaccine as a powder aerosol for immunization. © 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd.

pui:28461516
Title:Imaging of hygroscopic ultrafine pharmaceutical powders using low temperature and environmental scanning electron microscopy
Authors:M.J. ClarkeU.J. PotterC. GilpinM.J. TobynJ.N. Staniforth
Absract:Conventional scanning electron microscopy (SEM) is used successfully to image dry, mechanically stable pharmaceutical powders. However, problems occur when highly hydrated powders are exposed to the low pressures and high electron energies within the SEM chamber. Evaporation of adsorbed surface moisture or loosely-bound water of crystallization damages the conducting gold coat, leading to accumulation of negative charge on the imaged portion of the specimen sample surface. SEM characterization of nedocromil sodium, a hydrated hygroscopic drug powder, resulted in extensive charge build-up and image distortion. Therefore, alternative techniques have been adopted to image the drug powder in its fully hydrated state. Low temperature scanning electron microscopy (LTSEM) and environmental scanning electron microscopy (ESEM) have been used to determine the particle size and shape of nedocromil sodium trihydrate. The distribution of drug particles within carrier-based formulations for dry powder inhalation were also imaged. LTSEM and ESEM electron micrographs of samples taken from these dry powder systems illustrate how the drug forms as multi-particulate layers adhered to the lactose carrier surface or as self-agglomerates existing separately from the carrier component. Information regarding the interparticulate forces dictating the aerosol performance of the powder blends was inferred from the images and alternative formulation strategies were devised.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.07.040
Title:Innovative pMDI formulations of spray-dried nanoparticles for efficient pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:H.-Y. LiE.-Y. Xu
Absract:For drug delivery to the lungs, the aerodynamic size of drug particles plays a predominant role in determining the sites of deposition in the airway, and the particles with the size less than 2 μm are highly expected as they will be preferably delivered to the ideal site of alveolar regions. In this paper, a novel platform technology has been developed, where the water (containing pharmaceutically active agents)-in-oil (w/o) microemulsions were spray-dried to generate nanosized drug particles that were able to be homogeneously dispersed in the propellant to form an exceptionally stable suspensions with no precipitates or flocculates during a long time storage. High fine particle (< 5.8 μm) fraction (∼ 70% w/w) was achieved, irrespectively of drug molecular size and storage time. This platform technology works pretty well on chemical drugs (i.e. salbutamol sulphate) and biotherapeutics (i.e. insulin) for the generation of nanoparticles, and the nanoparticle pMDI formulations were homogeneous, stable and of high delivery efficiency to the lungs, representing an ideal way for pulmonary delivery.

doi:10.1016/S0091-6749(87)80021-0
Title:Methacholine responsiveness increases after ultrasonically nebulized water but not after ultrasonically nebulized hypertonic saline in patients with asthma
Authors:C.M. SmithS.D. AndersonJ.L. Black
Absract:Airway obstruction can be induced in patients with asthma by the inhalation of ultrasonically nebulized aerosols of nonisotonic solutions. It is the change in osmolarity of the periciliary fluid that is believed to be the stimulus for bronchoconstriction. However, it is not known whether hyperosmolar and hypo-osmolar aerosols induce asthma via the same mechanism. We have previously reported that patients with asthma have a reduction in the dose of provoking agent that induces a 20% fall in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end (PD@sub_begin20@sub_end) for methacholine after challenge with nebulized water. To determine whether hyperosmolar aerosols also increase sensitivity to methacholine, we studied 13 subjects with asthma on 3 days. On day 1, the PD@sub_begin20@sub_end to methacholine was determined. On day 2, a challenge with nebulized 4.5% saline was followed by a challenge with methacholine 40 to 60 minutes later. On day 3, a challenge with nebulized water was followed by a methacholine challenge. Sensitivity to methacholine was significantly increased after water (p < 0.02) but not after 4.5% saline. Furthermore, there was no relationship between the PD@sub_begin20@sub_end to water and to 4.5% saline. When the Spearman's correlation coefficient was used to compare sensitivity to the challenges, there was a significant relationship between the PD@sub_begin20@sub_end to 4.5% saline and methacholine (p < 0.01) but not between the PD@sub_begin20@sub_end to water and methacholine. These results suggest that the mechanism of asthma induced by hyperosmolar and hypo-osmolar solutions is different.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.07.065
Title:Carrier free indomethacin microparticles for dry powder inhalation
Authors:N.E. CeschanV. BucaláM.V. MateosH.D.C. SmythM.V. Ramírez-Rigo
Absract:The present studies were designed to evaluate inhalatory microparticles carrying indomethacin (IN) for potential local (specific and non-specific bronchial inflammatory asthma responses) and systemic treatments (joint inflammation, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis pain) by optimizing microparticle properties, characterizing their lung deposition, drug release, evaluating cytotoxicity and also pharmacological effect in vitro. The acidic groups of IN were complexed with the cationic groups of the polyelectrolyte polylysine in order to increase the drug water compatibility. The polylysine/indomethacin ratio was fixed and the pH was adjusted in different formulations. Microparticles were obtained by spray drying using a relatively high atomization air flowrate (742 L/min) and a high-performance cyclone in order to optimize the production of microparticles with adequate attributes for inhalatory delivery. The produced microparticles exhibited high process yield and IN loading, volumetric mean diameters smaller than 5 μm and narrow particle size distributions. According to demonstrated aerosolization performance, the powders were suitable for inhalatory indomethacin local and systemic treatments. Emitted fraction was higher than 90%, the MMAD was around 3 μm and the GSD lower than 3. The respirable fraction for particles with aerodynamic diameters smaller than 5 μm was around 29% while for particles with aerodynamic diameters smaller than 3 μm the value was around 17%. The addition of lactose as carrier worsened the aerodynamic performance of the microparticles. The developed powdered systems got wet and dissolved quickly and presented higher release rates respect to pure IN in simulated lung physiological conditions. Furthermore, the assays performed in RAW 264.7 cell line showed that the microparticles exhibited the same anti-inflammatory capability as the pure drug. The developed particles did not affect the RAW 264.7 cell viability. In conclusion, a promising powder formulation for DPIs has been developed to treat, locally and systemically, inflammatory diseases.

doi:10.3109/03639045.2012.680468
Title:Current approaches in tamper-resistant and abuse-deterrent formulations
Authors:D.J. MastropietroH. Omidian
Absract:Context: The escalating abuse of prescription drugs has recently spawned the development of novel drug formulations resistant to various methods of tampering and misuse. Objective: The intent of this paper is to provide an overview and classification system of formulation approaches, developed to produce what most refer to as abuse-deterrent or tamper-resistant dosage forms. Methods: A comprehensive literature search was conducted within Embase™ and Medline using key words "abuse deterrentâ and "tamper resistantâ to identify relevant technologies. Only issued patents were examined using the phrase "abuse deterrent compositionâ searched through PatFT from the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Current information from press releases and product innovator websites was obtained for additional data. Results: Identified formulation approaches were organized into two categories, physical approaches and chemical approaches. Physical approaches were subcategorized into solids, gels or non-intentionals, while chemical approaches were further broken down into agonists/antagonists, aversives, or metabolics. Among issued patents specifying an abuse-deterrent method, nine diverse approaches were found. Most formulations under development combined approaches, and utilized proprietary technologies from pharmaceutical manufacturers. Conclusions: Prodrug and agonist/antagonist formulations are popular in marketed products, while solid and gel approaches are more recent additions. However, the inclusion of aversive agents or enzyme inhibitors in a product is proving to be more difficult to develop. Overall, detailed formulation and manufacturing methods still remain rather elusive to protect public health. Moreover, these innovative formulations are mostly untried in the general population and their abuse deterring effects has yet to be proven. © 2013 Informa Healthcare USA, Inc.

doi:10.1111/jce.14289
Title:Multimodal mechanisms and enhanced efficiency of atrial fibrillation cardioversion by pulmonary delivery of a novel flecainide formulation
Authors:F. Tessarolo SilvaG.C. PedreiraS.A. MedeirosA.L. BortolottoB. Araujo SilvaM. HurreyP. MadhavapeddiC. SchulerL. BelardinelliR.L. Verrier
Absract:Introduction: Inhaled flecainide significantly alters atrial electrical properties with the potential to terminate atrial fibrillation (AF) efficiently by optimizing dose and drug formulation. Methods: Seventeen Yorkshire pigs were studied. Intrapericardial acetylcholine and burst pacing were used to induce AF. Effects of a novel cyclodextrin formulation (hydroxypropyl-ß-cyclodextrin [HPßCD]) of flecainide (75 mg/mL, 0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg, bolus) instilled intratracheally at 2 minutes after AF initiation were studied. Concentration time-area analyses of flecainide HPßCD were compared to the traditional acetate formulation. Results: Intratracheal instillation of flecainide HPßCD accelerated the conversion of AF to sinus rhythm in a dose-proportional manner, shortening AF duration by 47% (P =.014) and 79% (P =.002) at the lower and higher doses, respectively, compared to intratracheal sterile water placebo. AF dominant frequency was reduced by 11% (P =.04) and 29% (P =.004) respective to dose. At 2 minutes after intratracheal flecainide HPßCD, atrial depolarization (P@sub_begina@sub_end) duration increased by 12% (P =.02) and 17% (P =.009) at the lower and higher doses, respectively. At this time, the PR interval was prolonged by 9% (P =.04 for the higher dose) and AV node conduction was slowed, decreasing the ventricular rate during AF by 16% (P =.002) and 28% (P =.007) for the lower and higher doses. Flecainide HPßCD achieved the more efficient conversion of AF than the acetate formulation, reflected in a markedly reduced area under the curve (P =.04). Conclusion: Intratracheal instillation of the new flecainide HPßCD formulation effectively terminates AF through efficient multimodal actions including slowing of atrial conduction velocity and decreasing AF dominant frequency, allowing reduced net drug delivery and inhalation time.

pui:622968705
Title:Frankincense for organizing pneumonia: A steroid-sparing gift?
Authors:A. SynnK.M. Berg
Absract:Introduction: Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP) remains a poorly understood and clinically challenging condition. Corticosteroids are associated with rapid improvement, and despite a lack of randomized trials, have become the mainstay of treatment. Unfortunately, relapses are common and many patients are unable to taper steroid therapy, leading to significant adverse effects. Frankincense is reported to have anti-inflammatory properties, and we report a case of COP responsive to frankincense. Case Report: A 52-year-old man was referred to pulmonary clinic with worsening nonproductive cough, SOB, and pulmonary infiltrates. A surgical lung biopsy revealed organizing pneumonia. A thorough workup for associated conditions was unrevealing, and the patient was diagnosed with COP. Treatment with high-dose prednisone was initiated. Although his disease was steroid-responsive, multiple attempts to lower the dose below 20mg/day were unsuccessful due to recurrence of symptoms, worsening radiographic findings, and decline in pulmonary function. Azathioprine and mycophenolate mofetil were trialed but discontinued due to intolerable side effects. High-dose inhaled corticosteroids and daily azithromycin were initiated without effect on prednisone dose. Four years after his initial diagnosis, the patient began taking a commercial preparation of frankincense essential oil (inhalation via diffuser and oral ingestion). He noted an immediate improvement in symptoms, and over two years tapered off all other medications. Pulmonary function testing, which had previously demonstrated a low diffusing capacity and FVC, normalized. There have been no side effects related to frankincense. Discussion: In the medical community, there is reasonable skepticism of most herbal and “natural” remedies, which are generally unsupported by rigorous scientific evaluation and vary widely in quality and purity due to a lack of regulation. However, here we report a case of pathologically confirmed, steroiddependent COP with a dramatic clinical response to frankincense where standard therapies were intolerable or ineffective. Frankincense, the gum-resin of trees of genus Boswellia, has seen religious, cultural, and medicinal use since antiquity. More recently, frankincense has received attention for its potential anti-inflammatory, neuroactive, antibacterial, and antioxidant effects, and has been studied in conditions such as ulcerative colitis, multiple sclerosis, and asthma; one placebo-controlled randomized trial of Boswellia gum-resin resulted in improvement in bronchial asthma in 70% of patients compared to 27% of controls. The mechanism of action is not well understood but may be related to inhibition of leukotrienes and macrophage nitric oxide overproduction. Although the optimal dose, route, and formulation of frankincense are unknown, the dramatic response seen in this case merits further investigation.

doi:10.1007/s10856-008-3483-5
Title:Techniques to develop and characterize nanosized formulation for salbutamol sulfate
Authors:BhavnaF.J. AhmadR.K. KharS. SultanaA. Bhatnagar
Absract:The present study relates to enhancing the dosing efficiency of pharmaceutical dry powder formulations administered by pulmonary inhalation. In particular, the study relates to the provision of dry powder inhalers (DPI) by forming nanosized particles of salbutamol sulfate (SBM) in order to augment the drug penetrability and deposition in the lungs. SBM, an antiasthmatic was selected to be developed into a nanosized formulation by different techniques like solvation, high-pressure homogenization, and spray drying, which were then compared on the basis of particle shape, particle size, and particle size distribution. In case of solvation method the nanosuspension was prepared by dispersing SBM into a nonsolvent and adding Tween-80 as a surfactant to prevent the agglomeration, the particles obtained therein were in the range of 2-10 μ. The second attempt was made by passing the suspension of SBM through high-pressure homogenizer at 10,000-15,000 psi. A treatment of six cycles of homogenization in presence of a Tween-80 as surfactant was found to give a nanosuspension within a size range 50-100 nm. The only drawback seemed with this technique was the low-product yield and high-processing time (3-4 h). In order to overcome this drawback spray-drying technique was further explored; the solution of SBM containing Tween-80 was stirred on magnetic stirrer at 1,200 rpm and finally dried by using spray dryer at an inlet and outlet temperature of 75°C and 56°C, respectively. The feed rate for spray dryer was kept to be 91 ml/h. The sample was collected and analyzed for particle size distribution which was found to be in the range of 50-100 nm. Keeping in view the positive outcomes in terms of higher yield and lower processing time, the spray-drying technique was taken to give the optimized formulation. Nanosized particles, thus obtained were evaluated for particle size, surface topology and particles size distribution, by Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), and Quasi-elastic light scattering (QELS) technique, respectively. The nanosized particles were subjected to investigate changes on the physical stability of the powder, for this different analytical method was used as: Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis and thus the result indicates that there was no physical disparity when compared with the commercial SBM sample. © 2008 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1016/j.carbpol.2017.11.018
Title:Budesonide nanocrystal-loaded hyaluronic acid microparticles for inhalation: In vitro and in vivo evaluation
Authors:T. LiuM. HanF. TianD. CunJ. RantanenM. Yang
Absract:Most inhaled pharmaceutical formulations on the market are intended to exert immediate pharmacological action, even although inhaled sustained-release formulations can be needed to reduce the frequency of dosing. The purpose of this study was to investigate the pulmonary retention and pharmacokinetics of a poorly water-soluble drug after loading its nanocrystal form into inhalable mucoadhesive microparticles composed of hyaluronic acid. It was intended to prolong the pharmacological effect without compromising the dissolution rate of the poorly water-soluble drug. In this study, budesonide, a corticosteroid anti-inflammatory drug, was used as a model poorly water-soluble drug. Submicron budesonide particles were prepared by wet ball milling, and subsequently loaded into hyaluronic acid microparticles by the spray drying process. The ball-milled budesonide particles and the spray-dried microparticles were characterized using dynamic light scattering (DLS), laser diffraction, Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). Selected formulations were evaluated in terms of their dissolution/release rate, aerosol performance, muco-adhesion and pharmacokinetics in rats. As shown by XRD and DSC analysis, the nanonized budesonide particles in this study were mainly in crystalline form. The dissolution/release study showed that the in vitro release of budesonide from the microparticles was not significantly sustained compared with the dissolution rate of budesonide nanocrystals (BUD-NC). However, the budesonide in the microparticles exhibited prolonged retention on the surface of porcine tracheal tube owing to the muco-adhesion ability of hyaluronic acid. After intratracheal administration to rats, the BUD-NC exhibited a similar pharmacokinetic profile to that of budesonide solution via i.v. injection. In contrast, budesonide loaded in the mucoadhesive microparticles exhibited a significantly prolonged Tmax and increased bioavailability with the animal model. This study demonstrated that inhaled microparticles composed of hyaluronic acid could produce sustained budesonide pharmacological effects. This can be attributed to the mucoadhesion of the polymer that overcame the mucociliary clearance and, consequently, prolonged the retention of the active substance in the lung without necessarily reducing the in vitro dissolution rate.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.07.001
Title:Inhalable spray-dried formulation of D-LAK antimicrobial peptides targeting tuberculosis
Authors:P.C.L. KwokA. GrabarekM.Y.T. ChowY. LanJ.C.W. LiL. CasettariA.J. MasonJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Tuberculosis (TB) is a global disease that is becoming more difficult to treat due to the emergence of multidrug resistant (MDR) Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Inhalable antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are potentially useful alternative anti-TB agents because they can overcome resistance against classical antibiotics, reduce systemic adverse effects, and achieve local targeting. The aims of the current study were to produce inhalable dry powders containing D-enantiomeric AMPs (D-LAK120-HP13 and D-LAK120-A) and evaluate their solid state properties, aerosol performance, and structural conformation. These two peptides were spray dried with mannitol as a bulking agent at three mass ratios (peptide:mannitol 1:99, 1:49, and 1:24) from aqueous solutions. The resultant particles were spherical, with those containing D-LAK120-HP13 being more corrugated than those with D-LAK120-A. The median volumetric diameter of the particles was approximately 3 μm. The residual water content of all powders were <3% w/w and crystalline, due to the low hygroscopicity and crystallinity of mannitol, respectively. The mannitol changed from a mixture of alpha- and beta-forms to delta form with an increasing proportion of AMP in the formulation. The emitted fraction and fine particle fraction of the powders when dispersed from an Osmohaler® at 90 L/min were about 80% and 50-60% of the loaded dose, respectively, indicating good aerosol performance. Circular dichroism data showed that D-LAK120-HP13 dissolved in Tris buffer at pH 7.15 was of a disordered conformation. In contrast, D-LAK120-A showed greater α-helical conformation. Since the conformations of the AMPs were comparable to the controls (unprocessed peptides), the spray drying process did not substantially affect their secondary structures. In conclusion, spray dried powders containing d-enantiomeric AMPs with preserved secondary molecular structures and good aerosol performance could be successfully produced. They may potentially be used for treating MDR-TB when delivered by inhalation.

doi:10.1081/JAS-120020186
Title:Efficacy and safety of budesonide inhalation powder (Pulmicort Turbuhaler®) during 52 weeks of treatment in adults and children with persistent asthma
Authors:D.G. TinkelmanE.A. BronskyG. GrossW.F. SchoenwetterS.L. Spector
Absract:Background. Inhaled corticosteroids are the agents of choice for treating persistent asthma. Objective. To evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of budesonide inhalation powder (Pulmicort Turbuhaler®) in patients with mild to severe persistent asthma. Methods. Patients (n = 1133) received open-label budesonide (dose range, 100-800 μg b.i.d.) for 52 weeks following 2 weeks to 5 months of treatment in one of four double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Patients, identified before the double-blind studies, included adults (n = 249) not receiving corticosteroids, adults (n = 384) and children (n = 356) previously maintained on inhaled corticosteroids, and adults (n = 144) previously maintained on oral corticosteroids. Results. Mean forced expiratory volume in 1 sec was 68.2% of predicted normal (n = 1133) at baseline (mean from two visits before randomization), 74.4% (n = 1132) at the end of double-blind treatment, 81.3% (n = 971) at week 52, and 80.1% (n = 1125) at last observation (including patients who discontinued early). Sixty-four patients maintained on oral corticosteroids before double-blind treatment entered the open-label study off oral corticosteroids, 58 of whom (91%) remained oral corticosteroid-free throughout the study. There was no evidence of basal or cosyntropin-stimulated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function suppression, and the most commonly occurring adverse events were respiratory infection, sinusitis, and pharyngitis. Conclusions. During this 52-week, open-label study, budesonide maintained the improved pulmonary function and decreased oral corticosteroid use observed during previous double-blind treatment and was well tolerated, supporting its long-term use in adults and children with mild to severe persistent asthma.

doi:10.1177/2152656720980416
Title:Comparison of 12-Week Additional Effect Features of Formoterol Co-Inhalation and Tulobuterol Patch on Budesonide Inhalation in Elderly Patients With Asthma
Authors:S. FukahoriT. KawanoY. ObaseJ. IrikiT. Tsuchida-YabeS. TomariC. FukushimaH. MatsuseH. Mukae
Absract:Background: For asthma strategy, to avoid the aggravation of bronchial inflammation and contraction, the long acting beta agonist (LABA) addition on inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) has been recommended. Objectives: To know whether there is any clinical difference between the additional efficacies of Formoterol (FOR) and Tulobuterol (TUL) onto Budesonide (BUD) may be useful for the elderly patients’ asthma treatment strategy. Methods: Eighteen outpatients with mild to moderate bronchial asthma with FEV1.0% < 80% treated by intermediate ICS dosages visited Respiratory Division of Nagasaki University Hospital or Isahaya General Hospital, Japan Community Health care Organization were subjected, and were randomly assigned (9 cases per group) to either the FBC group (BUD/FOR 160/4.5 µg, 2 inhalations twice daily) or BUD + TUL group (BUD 200 mcg: 2 inhalations twice daily + TUL 2 mg daily) and were compared in parallel with 2 arms for 12 weeks prospectively. Peak expiratory flow, forced expiratory volume in 1 second, impulse oscillometry (IOS), fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), Asthma Control Questionnaire, mini-Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (mini-AQLQ), and occurrence of adverse reactions were compared. Results: The “Fres” of IOS was improved in FBC group (p = 0.03). The “emotion” domain of mini-AQLQ was improved in BUD + TUL group (p = 0.03). Conclusion: By changing the drug formulation, the patch was superior in terms of satisfaction, but it was thought that the inhaled combination was superior in improving the respiratory function itself. It is necessary to pay attention to the characteristics of the patient when selecting treatment.

doi:10.1136/thoraxjnl-2013-203207
Title:Inhaled, dual release liposomal ciprofloxacin in non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (ORBIT-2): A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial
Authors:D.J. SerisierD. BiltonA. De SoyzaP.J. ThompsonJ. KolbeH.W. GrevilleD. CipollaP. BruinenbergI. Gonda
Absract:Background The delivery of antipseudomonal antibiotics by inhalation to Pseudomonas aeruginosainfected subjects with non-cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchiectasis is a logical extension of treatment strategies successfully developed in CF bronchiectasis. Dual release ciprofloxacin for inhalation (DRCFI) contains liposomal ciprofloxacin, formulated to optimise airway antibiotic delivery. Methods Phase II, 24-week Australian/New Zealand multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebocontrolled trial in 42 adult bronchiectasis subjects with ≥2 pulmonary exacerbations in the prior 12 months and ciprofloxacin-sensitive P aeruginosa at screening. Subjects received DRCFI or placebo in three treatment cycles of 28 days on/28 days off. The primary outcome was change in sputum P aeruginosa bacterial density to the end of treatment cycle 1 (day 28), analysed by modified intention to treat (mITT). Key secondary outcomes included safety and time to first pulmonary exacerbation-after reaching the pulmonary exacerbation endpoint subjects discontinued study drug although remained in the study. Results DRCFI resulted in a mean (SD) 4.2 (3.7) log10 CFU/g reduction in P aeruginosa bacterial density at day 28 (vs -0.08 (3.8) with placebo, p=0.002). DRCFI treatment delayed time to first pulmonary exacerbation (median 134 vs 58 days, p=0.057 mITT, p=0.046 per protocol). DRCFI was well tolerated with a similar incidence of systemic adverse events to the placebo group, but fewer pulmonary adverse events. Conclusions Once-daily inhaled DRCFI demonstrated potent antipseudomonal microbiological efficacy in adults with non-CF bronchiectasis and ciprofloxacinsensitive P aeruginosa. In this modest-sized phase II study, DRCFI was also well tolerated and delayed time to first pulmonary exacerbation in the per protocol population.

doi:10.1517/17425240903089310
Title:New treatments for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and viable formulation/device options for inhalation therapy
Authors:S. OnoueS. MisakaY. KawabataS. Yamada
Absract:Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an increasingly important cause of morbidity and mortality, pathological features of which are pulmonary inflammation and irreversible airflow obstruction. Current therapies for COPD are aimed at improvement of clinical symptoms and reduction of inflammation in the respiratory systems. There is a pressing need for the development of new COPD medication, particularly as no existing treatment has been shown to reduce disease progression. In spite of a better understanding of the underlying disease process, there have been limited advances in the drug therapy of COPD, in contrast to the enormous advances in asthma management. Several new therapeutic targets and strategies have been proposed, and new drug candidates, including bronchodilators, protease inhibitors anti-inflammatory drugs and mediator antagonists, are now in clinical development for COPD treatment. New dry powder inhaler (DPI) systems for inhaled COPD therapy have also been developed to maximize drug concentrations in the airway systems, while minimizing systemic exposure and associated toxicity. This article aims to review recent developments in COPD drugs and the delivery systems for inhalation therapy, with particular emphasis on device options and formulations of DPI systems. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.biomaterials.2009.03.010
Title:The use of biotinylated-EGF-modified gelatin nanoparticle carrier to enhance cisplatin accumulation in cancerous lungs via inhalation
Authors:C.-L. TsengW.-Y. SuK.-C. YenK.-C. YangF.-H. Lin
Absract:To develop a polymer-anticancer drug conjugate, we employed gelatin nanoparticles (GPs) as carriers of cisplatin (CDDP) with anticipated improved therapeutic effect and reduced side effects. The anticancer activities of CDDP-incorporated in GPs (GP-Pt) with biotinylated-EGF (bEGF) modification (GP-Pt-bEGF) were studied. GP-Pt-bEGF with EGFR affinity produced much higher Pt concentrations in A549 cells (high EGFR expression) than in HFL1 cells (low EGFR expression). An in vitro anticancer study showed that GP-Pt-bEGF was more potent than free CDDP or GP-Pt because of its rapid effect on the cell cycle as well as a lower IC@sub_begin50@sub_end (1.2 μg/ml) that inhibits A549 cell growth. PI staining showed that cells treated with GP-Pt-bEGF for only 4 h had the highest sub-G1 population. The CDDP formulations - free CDDP, GP-Pt, and GP-Pt-bEGF - were given by intratumorous injections to SCID mice in a subcutaneous model. This treatment showed that GP-Pt-bEGF had stronger anti-tumor activity and was less toxic than free CDDP in vivo. Mice treated with GP-Pt-bEGF showed slight body weight loss, whereas free CDDP treatment at the same dose caused a body weight loss of 20-30%. Furthermore, these formulations were given to mice with lung cancer via aerosol delivery. This treatment showed that inhaled GP-Pt-bEGF could target EGFR-overexpressing cells to achieve high cisplatin dosage in cancerous lungs. To summarize, gelatin nanoparticles loaded with CDDP and decorated with EGF tumor-specific ligand were successfully developed. Their in vitro and in vivo targeting ability and anticancer effect were confirmed. The aerosol delivery of the nanodrug carrier was demonstrated. Simple aerosol delivery of targeted drug carriers may prove useful for the clinical treatment of lung cancer patients. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2011.561310
Title:Challenges and advances in the development of inhalable drug formulations for cystic fibrosis lung disease
Authors:B.M. IbrahimM.D. TsifanskyY. YangY. Yeo
Absract:Introduction: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystem genetic disorder, which usually results in significant respiratory dysfunction. At present there is no cure for CF, but advances in pharmacotherapy have gradually increased the life expectancy of CF patients. As many drugs used in the therapy of CF are delivered by inhalation, the demand for effective and convenient inhalational CF drug formulations will grow as CF patients live longer. Knowledge of the current limitations in inhalational CF drug delivery is critical in identifying new opportunities and designing rational delivery strategies. Areas covered: This review discusses current and emerging therapeutic agents for CF therapy, selected physiological challenges to effective inhalational medication delivery, and various approaches to overcoming these challenges. The reader will find an integrated view of the known inhalational drug delivery challenges and the rationales for recent investigational inhalational drug formulations. Expert opinion: An ideal drug/gene delivery system to CF airways should overcome the tenacious sputum, which presents physical, chemical and biological barriers to effective transport of therapeutic agents to the targets and various cellular challenges. © 2011 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1002/ddr.10426
Title:Recent strategies and methods for improving insulin delivery
Authors:C. LinR. GokhaleJ.S. TrivediV. Ranade
Absract:Subcutaneous insulin has been used to treat diabetes since the discovery of insulin itself. However, despite a number of different formulations and routes of administration, intensive insulin therapy without limitations, such as too low bioavailability, has not enjoyed widespread clinical acceptance. Attempts to find effective, well-tolerated routes for delivering insulin began in the late 1920s and as of today, an ideal insulin delivery is still formidable. The most recent advances in insulin delivery are focused on using the inhalation route. The recent European filing of inhaled insulin (Exubera) is providing hope for alternative delivery routes, for example. This article reviews recent advances and approaches that hold promise toward the successful development of insulin delivery for the management of diabetes. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119952
Title:Storage stability of phage-ciprofloxacin combination powders against Pseudomonas aeruginosa respiratory infections
Authors:Y. LinR. Yoon Kyung ChangW.J. BrittonS. MoralesE. KutterJ. LiH.-K. Chan
Absract:Novel inhalable and synergistic combination powder formulations of phage PEV20 and ciprofloxacin were recently developed to treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa respiratory infections. In the present study, we investigated the storage stability of these powders which comprised ciprofloxacin, lactose and L-leucine in mass ratios of 1:1:1 (Formulation A) or ciprofloxacin and L-leucine in 2:1 without lactose (Formulation B). These powders were produced by spray drying, collected in polypropylene tubes and packed inside aluminium pouches which were heat-sealed at < 20% relative humidity (RH), then stored at 4 °C or 25 °C. The phage viability, aerosol performance and solid-state properties of the powders were examined over 12 months. The biological activity and aerosol performance of both formulations showed no significant change over 12 months of storage at 4 °C. However, after four months of storage at 25 °C, a significant titer loss of 2.2 log@sub_begin10@sub_end (p < 0.01) was observed in Formulation B, but the loss in Formulation A was much less (0.5 log@sub_begin10@sub_end (p < 0.05)). In contrast, the fine particle fraction (FPF, wt. % particles ≤ 5 µm) of Formulation A was significantly reduced by 11% (p < 0.05) after four months of storage at 25 °C, whereas the aerosol performance of Formulation B remained stable over 12 months. The results showed that ciprofloxacin can sufficiently stabilize phage through vitrification and/or hydrogen bonding at 4 °C. The presence of lactose was beneficial to preserve the phage at 25 °C. In conclusion, spray dried PEV20-ciprofloxacin combination powders were biologically and physico-chemically stable even without lactose as a stabilising excipient, when stored below 20% RH at 4 °C for 12 months.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Assessing central and peripheral pulmonary deposition of three fluticasone propionate (FP) dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations with different aerodynamic particle size distributions (APSD) in healthy subjects via population pharmacokinetics modeling
Authors:S.K. DrescherM.-J. ChenA. KurumaddaliU. SchillingY. JiaoJ. ShaoB. SeayS.M. BaumsteinM.N. Abu-HasanR. DelvadiaL. WinnerC. TabulovB. SalujaJ. ShurR. PriceM. HindleX. WeiM. OguntimeinD.S. ContiJ. BulittaG. Hochhaus
Absract:This study aimed to evaluate whether pharmacokinetic (PK) data in healthy subjects can quantitatively compare the regional deposition of different fluticasone propionate (FP) dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. Three experimental FP formulations which differed in lactose fines, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) and fine particle dose (FPD), were assessed in a randomized, double-blind, four-period, four-way crossover study in 24 healthy subjects. Each of the three formulations was dosed as 5 capsules each containing a nominal dose of 100 lg of FP, with one formulation being replicated. Inhalation profiles during drug administration and FP plasma concentrations over 24 hours were quantified. The developed population PK model consisted of three body compartments. Absorption was described by two parallel first-order processes, i.e., a slow absorption presumably from central lung and fast absorption from peripheral lung. High peak inspiratory flow rate (PIFR) values significantly increased pulmonary absorbed doses. The three formulations were estimated to have a similar extent of bioavailability from central lung. However, formulations differed significantly in the extent of bioavailability from peripheral lung. This agreed well with in vitro Next Generation Cascade Impactor (NGI) data of these three DPI formulations. Therefore, human PK data in healthy subjects assessed via population PK modeling provided meaningful information on the rate and extent of drug deposition and absorption in the lungs for these three DPI formulations. The insights from this study may be leveraged to help the development of orally inhaled drug products.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2019.08.004
Title:Inhalable combination powder formulations of phage and ciprofloxacin for P. aeruginosa respiratory infections
Authors:Y. LinR.Y.K. ChangW.J. BrittonS. MoralesE. KutterJ. LiH.-K. Chan
Absract:Recently we showed that nebulized ciprofloxacin and phage PEV20 in combination had a synergistic bactericidal effect against antibiotic-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates from patients with cystic fibrosis. Compared to nebulization, dry powders for inhalation may improve patient handling characteristics and compliance. In the present study, we co-spray dried ciprofloxacin and phage PEV20 using L-leucine with or without lactose as excipients. Two formulations were identified for testing in this study. The mass ratios were set at 1:1:1 for ciprofloxacin, lactose and L-leucine (Formulation A) or 2:1 for ciprofloxacin and L-leucine without lactose (Formulation B). Concentrations of PEV20 were set at 10@sup_begin8@sup_end and 10@sup_begin9@sup_end PFU/mL for two clinical P. aeruginosa strains FADD1-PA001 and JIP865, respectively. Formulations A and B were characterized as partially crystalline and the powders recrystallized at >40% relative humidity (RH). Both formulations exhibited strong synergistic antimicrobial killing effect on the two strains. Formulations A and B maintained bactericidal synergy after dispersion using both low and high resistance Osmohaler™. Powder aerosol performance was examined by next generation impactor (NGI) in low resistance inhaler at 100 L/min and by multi-stage liquid impinger (MSLI) in high resistance inhaler at 60 L/min. Fine particle fractions (FPF) obtained by NGI were 59.7 ± 2.1% and 64.3 ± 2.9% for A and B, respectively. FPF obtained by MSLI were 71.0 ± 3.4% and 73.3 ± 5.0%, respectively. In conclusion, it is feasible to prepare stable and inhalable combination powder formulations of phage PEV20 and ciprofloxacin for potential treatment of respiratory infections caused by multi-drug resistant (MDR) P. aeruginosa.

doi:10.2217/nnm.10.143
Title:Nanocarriers for pulmonary administration of peptides and therapeutic proteins
Authors:F. AndradeM. VideiraD. FerreiraB. Sarmento
Absract:Peptides and therapeutic proteins have been the target of intense research and development in recent years by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. Preferably, they are administered through the parenteral route, which is associated with reduced patient compliance. Formulations for noninvasive administration of peptides and therapeutic proteins are currently being developed. Among them, inhalation appears as a promising alternative for the administration of such products. Several formulations for pulmonary delivery are in various stages of development. Despite positive results, conventional formulations have some limitations such as reduced bioavailability and side effects. Nanocarriers may be an alternative way to overcome the problems of conventional formulations. Some nanocarrier-based formulations of peptides and therapeutic proteins are currently under development. The results obtained are promising, revealing the usefulness of these systems in the delivery of such drugs. © 2011 Future Medicine Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119970
Title:Co-electrospraying technology as a novel approach for dry powder inhalation formulation of montelukast and budesonide for pulmonary co-delivery
Authors:S. YaqoubiK. AdibkiaA. NokhodchiS. EmamiA.A. AlizadehH. HamishehkarM. Barzegar-Jalali
Absract:In the current study electrospraying methodology was used for particle engineering of montelukast and budesonide to prepare a combined inhalable dry powder formulation applicable as a smart regimen in asthma treatment. For this, electrospraying was carried out using different solvents and drug concentrations. No carrier was added for the formulation of montelukast-budesonide combination as montelukast played the role of both active ingredient and carrier. Scanning electron microscopy, particle size analysis, gas chromatography, powder X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and differential scanning calorimetry were used to evaluate the physicochemical properties of the produced drug particles. In vitro drug deposition pattern was assessed using next generation impactor, and the dissolution profile of the selected formulations was characterized via modified diffusion franz cell method. The FPF value for the co-electrosprayed carrier free formulation of montelukast-budesonide was 38% with a significantly enhanced dissolution rate for budesonide compared to the budesonide alone formulations. The pharmacological effects of hypothesized combined formulation was assessed by measuring its power to inhibit the production of reactive oxygen species in human normal lung cells. The results showed that the combination of montelukast and budesonide can exert a synergistic effect. The findings in the current study emphasize that using montelukast as a carrier for budesonide not only has greatly improved the aerosolization behavior and dissolution rate of budesonide but also has resulted in synergistic pharmacological effects, indicating the suitability of this combination as an anti-asthmatic therapeutic.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119045
Title:Formation of ciprofloxacin nanocrystals within liposomes by spray drying for controlled release via inhalation
Authors:I. KhatibP. TangJ. RuanD. CipollaF. DaytonJ.D. BlanchardH.-K. Chan
Absract:The present study was conducted to harness spray drying technology as a novel method of producing Ciprofloxacin nanocrystals inside liposomes (CNL) for inhalation delivery. Liposomal ciprofloxacin dispersions were spray dried with sucrose as a lyoprotectant in different mass ratios (0.5:1, 1:1 and 2:1 sucrose to lipids), along with 2% w/w magnesium stearate and 5% w/w isoleucine as aerosolization enhancers. Spray drying conditions were: inlet air temperature 50 °C, outlet air temperature 33–35 °C, atomizer rate 742 L/h and aspirator 35 m@sup_begin3@sup_end/h. After spray drying, the formation of ciprofloxacin nanocrystals inside the liposomes was confirmed by cryo- transmission electron microscopy. The physiochemical characteristics of the spray dried powder (particle size, morphology, crystallinity, moisture content, drug encapsulation efficiency (EE), in vitro aerosolization performance and drug release) were determined. The EE of the liposomes was found to vary between 44 and 87% w/w as the sucrose content was increased from 25 to 57% w/w. The powders contained partially crystalline particles with a volume median diameter of ~1 µm. The powders had low water content (~2% wt.) and were stable at high relative humidity. Aerosol delivery using the Osmohaler® inhaler at a flow rate of 100 L/min produced an aerosol fine particle fraction (% wt. <5 µm) of 58–64%. The formulation with the highest sucrose content (2:1 w/w sucrose to lipid) demonstrated extended ciprofloxacin release from liposomes (80% released within 7 h) in comparison to the original liquid formulation (80% released within 2 h). In conclusion, a stable and inhalable CNL powder with controlled drug release was successfully prepared by spray drying.

doi:10.2174/1872213X12666181012101444
Title:Inhaled biologicals for the treatment of cystic fibrosis
Authors:V. SalaA. MurabitoA. Ghigo
Absract:Background: Cystic Fibrosis (CF), one of the most frequent genetic diseases, is characterized by the production of viscous mucus in several organs. In the lungs, mucus clogs the airways and traps bacteria, leading to recurrent/resistant infections and lung damage. For cystic fibrosis patients, respiratory failure is still lethal in early adulthood since available treatments display incomplete efficacy. Objective: The objective of this review is to extend the current knowledge in the field of available treatments for cystic fibrosis. A special focus has been given to inhaled peptide-based drugs. Methods: The current review is based on recent and/or relevant literature and patents already available in various scientific databases, which include PubMed, PubMed Central, Patentscope and Science Direct. The information obtained through these diverse databases is compiled, critically interpreted and presented in the current study. An in-depth but not systematic approach to the specific research question has been adopted. Results: Recently, peptides have been proposed as possible pharmacologic agents for the treatment of respiratory diseases. Of note, peptides are suitable to be administered by inhalation to maximize efficacy and reduce systemic side effects. Moreover, innovative delivery carriers have been developed for drug administration through inhalation, allowing not only protection against proteolysis, but also a prolonged and controlled release. Conclusion: Here, we summarize newly patented peptides that have been developed in the last few years and advanced technologies for inhaled drug delivery to treat cystic fibrosis.

doi:10.1111/head.13549
Title:Comparison of early plasma exposure of DHE following nasal, oral inhalation, or intravenous administration
Authors:K.H. SatterlyS.B. ShrewsburyH. John
Absract:Background: The objective of this study is to compare plasma exposure in the first two hours following administration of dihydroergotamine mesylate (DHE) by INP104 (POD® nasal), Migranal® Nasal Spray, D.H.E. 45® (IV) or MAP0004 (oral inhalation) using data obtained from the STOP 101 study and literature reports. IV DHE is a reliable and effective treatment for migraine approved in the US in 1946. DHE plasma exposure in the first 2 hours is critical to migraine pain relief, justifying an emphasis on AUC0-2hr and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end when assessing novel DHE products. Further, while the C@sub_beginmax@sub_end is important for efficacy, research suggests that a high C@sub_beginmax@sub_end may predict a high rate of adverse events. INP104, a novel drug-device combination product in Phase 3 clinical development, targets delivery of a liquid DHE formulation to the upper nasal cavity using the Precision Olfactory Delivery (POD®) device. Methods: (1). PK results from STOP 101, a Phase 1, single dose, safety, tolerability, and bioavailability study of healthy subjects who received INP104 (1.45 mg), Migranal Nasal Spray (2 mg), or D.H.E. 45 IV (1 mg) in a 3-way, 3-period crossover were compared. (2). Trends of DHE PK, efficacy, and adverse events related to C@sub_beginmax@sub_end reported in the literature were studied and are described. Results: AUC@sub_begin0-2hr@sub_end following administration of INP104 (1.45 mg), Migranal (2 mg), and D.H.E. 45 (1 mg IV) was 1,603, 387.5, and 3,022 hr∗pg/mL, respectively, in the STOP 101 trial. C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values were highest following D.H.E. 45 (IV) at 14,190 pg/mL followed by INP104 at 1,301 pg/mL and Migranal at 299.6 pg/ mL. A literature report describing the PK of orally inhaled DHE 1 mg (MAP0004: clinically developed but never marketed due to CMC challenges) states an AUC@sub_begin0-2hr@sub_end value of 1,447 hr∗pg/mL. Further, research from a Phase 2 trial with MAP0004 reports onset of pain relief in migraineurs as early as 10 minutes and only 1 incidence of nausea. Lastly, a review of the literature suggests that the probability of nausea is < 2% when plasma DHE C@sub_beginmax@sub_end is ≤5,000 pg/mL, whereas at 13,400 pg/mL, the probability of nausea is ≥50%. Conclusion: Delivery of INP104, DHE by the POD device, results in high plasma exposure to DHE in the first 2 hours, a goal for acute migraine products to enable potential pain relief. Further, an approximate 10-fold reduction in C@sub_beginmax@sub_end following DHE administration by INP104 may lead to more favorable tolerability compared to IV DHE.

doi:10.1111/bcp.13831
Title:Particle size and gastrointestinal absorption influence tiotropium pharmacokinetics: a pilot bioequivalence study of PUR0200 and Spiriva HandiHaler
Authors:J. PerryB. TrautmanJ. Takher-SmithS. KramerK. KaneM. SilvermanL. TanS. HaughieW. RichterV. KirkovS. ArsovaJ. WardD.L. Hava
Absract:Aims: Plasma pharmacokinetics permit the assessment of efficacy and safety of inhaled drugs, and possibly their bioequivalence to other inhaled products. Correlating drug product attributes to lung deposited dose is important to achieving equivalence. PUR0200 is a spray-dried formulation of tiotropium that enables more efficient lung delivery than Spiriva@sup_begin®@sup_end HandiHaler@sup_begin®@sup_end (HH). The ratio of tiotropium lung-to-oral deposition in PUR0200 was varied to investigate the impact of particle size on tiotropium pharmacokinetics, and the contribution of oral absorption to tiotropium exposure was assessed using charcoal block. Methods: A seven-period, single-dose, crossover study was performed in healthy subjects. PUR0200 formulations differing in dose and aerodynamic particle size were administered in five periods and Spiriva HH in two periods. In one period, Spiriva HH gastrointestinal absorption was blocked with oral charcoal. Tiotropium plasma concentrations were assessed over 8 h after inhalation. Results: PUR0200 pharmacokinetics were influenced by aerodynamic particle size and the ratio of lung-to-oral deposition, with impactor sized mass (ISM) correlating most strongly with exposure. Formulation PUR0217a (3 μg tiotropium) lung deposition was similar to Spiriva HH (18 μg) with and without charcoal block, but total PUR0200 exposure was lower without charcoal. The C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0–0.5h@sub_end of Spiriva HH with and without charcoal block were bioequivalent; however, Spiriva HH AUC@sub_begin0–8h@sub_end was lower when gastrointestinal absorption was inhibited with oral charcoal administration. Conclusions: Pharmacokinetic bioequivalence indicative of lung deposition and efficacy can be achieved by matching the reference product ISM. Due to reduced oral deposition and more efficient lung delivery, PUR0200 results in a lower AUC@sub_begin0–t@sub_end than Spiriva HH due to reduced absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract.

doi:10.3181/0901-RM-8
Title:Aerosol delivery of liposomal formulated paclitaxel and vitamin E analog reduces murine mammary tumor burden and metastases
Authors:P. LatimerM. MenchacaR.M. SnyderW. YuB.E. GilbertB.G. SandersK. Kline
Absract:Paclitaxel is a chemotherapeutic agent used for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. 2,5,7,8-Tetramethyl-2R-(4R, 8R-12-trimethyltridecyl) chroman-6-yloxyacetic acid (α-TEA) is an analog of vitamin E that inhibits primary tumor growth and the incidence of lymphatic and pulmonary metastases in preclinical animal models. Here, the efficacy of sequential treatment with paclitaxel and α-TEA was tested in the BALB/c syngeneic 66cl-4-GFP mammary cancer model. Both agents were formulated into liposomes and delivered by inhalation in an effort to increase anti-tumor efficacy and minimize paclitaxel toxicity. Combination treatment consisting of twelve days of every-other-day treatment with aerosolized paclitaxel (approximately 0.46 μg/mouse/treatment) followed by a daily regimen of aerosolized α-TEA (36 μg/mouse/ treatment) significantly decreased primary tumor burden when compared to untreated or liposome control groups and was significantly better than individual treatments (P < 0.05). Importantly, combination treatment was significantly better at reducing lung and lymph node micrometastatic foci when compared to control and individual treatment groups (P < 0.05). Immunohistochemical analyses of tumor sections showed combination treatment when compared to liposome control or individual treatments to significantly decrease total number of cells staining positive for the endothelial cell marker CD31 or for the Ki67 marker of cellular proliferation and increase the number of apoptotic (TUNEL positive) tumor cells (P < 0.001). Studies addressing the toxicity of α-TEA demonstrated that α-TEA formulated in liposomes and delivered by aerosol (72 lg/mouse/day) or gavage (5 mg/mouse/day) for 25 days did not cause blood, liver, or kidney toxicity. In conclusion, sequential inhalation delivery of liposomal-formulated paclitaxel and α-TEA produces significantly better anti-tumor outcomes than single treatments. Copyright © 2009 by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2018.1519
Title:A Dose-Response Study Examining the Use of Methacholine Challenge to Demonstrate Local Therapeutic Equivalence of the Salmeterol Component of Generic Inhaled Fluticasone Propionate/Salmeterol Combination Products
Authors:R. AllanS. HaughieR. AhrensS. SinghJ. Ward
Absract:Background: Asthma is widely treated using inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta agonist (LABA) combinations, for example, fluticasone propionate/salmeterol (FPS) dry powder inhaler, marketed as Advair@sup_begin®@sup_end Diskus@sup_begin®@sup_end. Some regulators require generics to demonstrate local (lung) therapeutic equivalence (LTE) for each component of the FPS reference, ideally with a dose-response within the approved FPS dose range. We sought to develop a methacholine challenge (MeCh) LTE methodology for assessing the LABA (salmeterol) component of FPS. Methods: Forty-six patients with asthma received single doses of albuterol (active control; 90 or 180 μg), FPS (100/50 or 200/100 μg), and placebo on 5 separate study days. Spirometry and MeCh were performed 1, 6, and 10 hours after study drug inhalation. Primary endpoint was provocative concentration of methacholine producing a 20% fall in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (PC@sub_begin20@sub_end). Study entry required screening PC@sub_begin20@sub_end ≤8 mg/mL, with a greater than fourfold increase (and PC@sub_begin20@sub_end ≤128 mg/mL) after 180 μg albuterol. Results: Both albuterol (90 and 180 μg) and FPS (100/50 and 200/100 μg) significantly increased PC@sub_begin20@sub_end compared with placebo (sustained 6 and 10 hours postdose with FPS but not albuterol). The dose-response slopes (95% confidence interval) estimated 1 hour after treatment were 0.374 (-0.068 to 0.815) and 0.310 (-0.135 to 0.754) between low and high doses of albuterol and FPS, respectively, both nonsignificant. Slopes were shallower than those available in the literature for albuterol and formoterol, but similar to those for salmeterol. Conclusions: These data confirm that the bronchoprotective effect of FPS lasts longer than that of albuterol. The shallow dose-response slope we observed for albuterol is contrary to previous reports, probably due to the measurement of PC@sub_begin20@sub_end beginning at 1 hour postdose. The results suggest that use of MeCh to assess LTE for salmeterol formulations may be more difficult to accomplish than it is for albuterol and formoterol products.

doi:10.1186/s40413-016-0096-1
Title:Anaphylactic Reaction After Inhalation of Budesonide
Authors:M. Lee-WongS. McClellandN.B. SilverbergC.E. Song
Absract:Background: Hypersensitivity reactions to corticosteroids are known to occur, but are an unexpected phenomenon. However, immediate hypersensitivity with severe anaphylactic reactions is scarce in literature. Methods: Diagnosis is confirmed using a patch test for suspected delayed type hypersensitivity. Skin prick and/or intradermal tests are for immediate type hypersensitivity to identify the responsible agent and potential cross-reactivity patterns[i]. Results: A patient presented with seasonal allergies and asthma not adequately controlled with inhaled albuterol. Inhaled budesonide/formoterol daily was prescribed for treatment. The first dose was well tolerated, but 15 minutes after the second dose the next day, the patient developed shortness of breath, a feeling of throat tightness, swelling of the lips and tongue and blisters along the oral mucosa. The patient was treated with an oral antihistamine and symptoms abated within one hour. The patient was unaware of any previous allergies to corticosteroids and reported using various topical preparations to treat dermatitis for more that one year without resolution. An open test with an application of budesonide/formoterol was sprayed onto the patient's arm resulting in an erythematous plaque at 72 hours. Patch testing revealed delayed reactions at 48 hours to tixocortol-21-pivalate 1%, budesonide 0.01% and hydrocortisone 1%. Skin tests[ii]were performed to further evaluate and document corticosteroid hypersensitivity using ciclosenide, methylprednisolone, mometasone, budesonide, budesonide/formoterol, formoterol, fluticasone/salmeterol along with normal saline and histamine as controls. Within 24 hours positive results for two different inhaled budesonide formulations and one for budesonide/formoterol were observed. Conclusions: Inhaled corticosteroids are first line agents in the treatment of persistent asthma. In patients with sensitivity to this drug class, clinicians should be aware of cross-reactivity patterns to identify an appropriate corticosteroid for therapy and test to identify the class of products which would be deemed safe. Furthermore, the practitioner should be aware that prior atopy is a risk factor for sensitization to topically applied therapeutics. Lastly, the anti-inflammatory effects of a corticosteroid may mask the allergy. Although patch and skin tests supported delayed hypersensitivity reactions, this patient presented with an immediate hypersensitivity reaction that is suspected to have occurred from previous sensitization of topical corticosteroid use.

doi:10.1513/AnnalsATS.201311-395FR
Title:Inhaled antibiotics for lower airway infections
Authors:B.S. QuonC.H. GossB.W. Ramsey
Absract:Inhaled antibiotics have been used to treat chronic airway infections since the 1940s. The earliest experience with inhaled antibiotics involved aerosolizing antibiotics designed for parenteral administration. These formulations caused significant bronchial irritation due to added preservatives and nonphysiologic chemical composition. A major therapeutic advance took place in 1997, when tobramycin designed for inhalation was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) with chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Attracted by the clinical benefits observed inCF and the availability of dry powder antibiotic formulations, there has been a growing interest in the use of inhaled antibiotics in other lower respiratory tract infections, such as non-CF bronchiectasis, ventilator-associated pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, mycobacterial disease, and in the post-lung transplant setting over the past decade. Antibiotics currently marketed for inhalation include nebulized and dry powder forms of tobramycin and colistin and nebulized aztreonam. Although both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency have approved their use in CF, they have not been approved in other disease areas due to lack of supportive clinical trial evidence. Injectable formulations of gentamicin, tobramycin, amikacin, ceftazidime, and amphotericin are currently nebulized "off-label" to manage non-CF bronchiectasis, drug-resistant nontuberculous mycobacterial infections, ventilator-associated pneumonia, and post-transplant airway infections. Future inhaled antibiotic trials must focus on disease areas outside of CF with sample sizes large enough to evaluate clinically important endpoints such as exacerbations. Extrapolating from CF, the impact of eradicating organisms such as P. aeruginosa in non-CF bronchiectasis should also be evaluated. Copyright © 2014 by the American Thoracic Society.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.2012.01486.x
Title:Engineered PLGA nano- and micro-carriers for pulmonary delivery: Challenges and promises
Authors:F. UngaroI. D'AngeloA. MiroM.I. La RotondaF. Quaglia
Absract:Objectives The aim of this review is to summarize the current state-of-the-art in poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) carriers for inhalation. It presents the rational of use, the potential and the recent advances in developing PLGA microparticles and nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery. The most promising particle engineering strategies are discussed, highlighting the advantages along with the major challenges for researchers working in this field. Key findings Biodegradable polymer carriers, such as PLGA particles, may permit effective protection and long-term delivery of the inhaled drug and, when adequately engineered, its efficient transport to the target. The carrier can be designed for inhalation on the basis of several strategies through the adequate combination of available particle technologies and excipients. In so doing, the properties of PLGA particles can be finely tuned at micro-size and nano-size level to fulfill specific therapeutic needs. This means not only to realize optimal in vitro/in vivo lung deposition of the formulation, which is still crucial, but also to control the fate of the drug in the lung after particle landing. Summary Although many challenges still exist, PLGA carriers may be highly beneficial and present a new scenario for patients suffering from chronic lung diseases and for pharmaceutical companies working to develop novel inhaled products. © 2012 The Authors. JPP © 2012 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

pui:352134286
Title:The role of aerosolized antimicrobials in the treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia
Authors:R. Dhand
Absract:The ability to deliver high concentrations of antimicrobial agents directly to the site of pneumonia is attractive, especially with the availability of high-efficiency nebulizers. A major focus of inhaled antimicrobial therapy has been to prevent and treat ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). VAP occurs commonly in mechanically ventilated patients and is associated with significant morbidity and high mortality. Moreover, the emergence of VAP due to multiple-drug-resistant Gram-negative organisms that are resistant to any form of systemic antimicrobial therapy has provided an impetus to explore inhaled antimicrobial treatment as an adjunct to systemic therapy. Tobramycin solution for inhalation and colistimethate sodium have been formulated for delivery via inhalation. Although these agents are being increasingly employed in intensive care units, the intricacies involved in their use are not appreciated by many clinicians. This review discusses the role of these agents in the prevention and treatment of VAP, with an emphasis on some of the problems associated with their use. Further research is needed to support the use of inhaled antimicrobial therapy in patients with VAP. © 2007 Daedalus Enterprises.

doi:10.11669/cpj.2020.24.014
Title:International Guidelines Study for Bioequivalence of Respiratory Drugs for Locally Acting Orally Inhaled Drug Products
Authors:F.-C. ZhuA.-G. WangL.-H. LiuX.-P. CaoY.-G. JiangC.-N. YangH.-J. ZhangF. HanL.-X. Ding
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To study the main guidelines or related guidelines for the study of bioequivalence of locally acting orally inhaled drug products (OIDP) issued by the drug regulatory authorities of the United States Food and Drug Administration, the European Medicines Agency, the Australian Drug Administration, the National Medical Products Administration and other countries or organizations. At the same time, it focuses on the analysis of the FDA's "Guidelines for Bioequivalence of Specific Drugs" and the relevant provisions of the bioequivalence study of OIDPs, which provide reference and assistance for the consistent evaluation of the quality and efficacy of our generic drugs. METHODS: Comparatively analyze the similarities and differences in the relevant international guidelines on bioequivalence of OIDP issued by the above countries. For the quality and efficacy consistency evaluation of China's generic drug quality and efficacy of reference formulations in the list of typical oral inhalation drug varieties, the FDA published the "Guidelines for Bioequivalence of Specific Drugs" for detailed analysis of the dosage form, mode of administration, in vitro experiments, clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, trial design, subject selection, test substances and other aspects. RESULTS: Although there are many commonalities, there are also many differences in the regulatory recommendations for clinical studies such as formulation, in vitro testing, in vivo pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics for bioequivalence studies of OIDPs. Among them, the FDA published the "Guiding Principles on Bioequivalence of Specific Drugs" involving oral inhalation preparations, which provides detailed provisions on the bioequivalence evaluation of specific chemical generics from various aspects, and has an important role in promoting the development of generic drugs in China. CONCLUSION: Analysis and comparison of the above-mentioned countries issued relevant international guidelines on bioequivalence of OIDPs, and focus on the FDA published "Guidelines on Bioequivalence of Specific Drugs", is conducive to understanding the bioequivalence standards of different institutions around the world, and has certain guidance and reference significance to the ongoing evaluation of the quality and efficacy of generic drugs in China.

doi:10.1186/s13054-016-1448-5
Title:Fundamentals of aerosol therapy in critical care
Authors:J. DhananiJ.F. FraserH.-K. ChanJ. RelloJ. CohenJ.A. Roberts
Absract:Drug dosing in critically ill patients is challenging due to the altered drug pharmacokinetics-pharmacodynamics associated with systemic therapies. For many drug therapies, there is potential to use the respiratory system as an alternative route for drug delivery. Aerosol drug delivery can provide many advantages over conventional therapy. Given that respiratory diseases are the commonest causes of critical illness, use of aerosol therapy to provide high local drug concentrations with minimal systemic side effects makes this route an attractive option. To date, limited evidence has restricted its wider application. The efficacy of aerosol drug therapy depends on drug-related factors (particle size, molecular weight), device factors, patient-related factors (airway anatomy, inhalation patterns) and mechanical ventilation-related factors (humidification, airway). This review identifies the relevant factors which require attention for optimization of aerosol drug delivery that can achieve better drug concentrations at the target sites and potentially improve clinical outcomes.

doi:10.1080/03639045.2021.1892743
Title:Nanostructured lipid carrier-mediated lung targeted drug delivery system to enhance the safety and bioavailability of clofazimine
Authors:T.S. PatilA.S. Deshpande
Absract:Tuberculosis (TB) disease is caused due to the infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacilli which reside in alveolar macrophages (AMs). Clofazimine (CLF) has been reinstated clinically for the treatment of TB. However, major challenge of using CLF is its severe side-effects after oral administration. The present research was aimed to establish the safety and enhance the bioavailability of CLF by loading it into nanostructured lipid carriers (CLF-NLCs) and mannosylated NLCs (M-CLF-NLCs) to selectively target the drug toward AMs. The safety of CLF-NLCs and M-CLF-NLCs was evaluated by in vitro hemocompatibility studies, cell viability studies on macrophage J774 cell lines, and in vivo acute inhalation toxicity studies. The bioavailability was estimated by single-dose pharmacokinetics and biodistribution studies. Hemocompatibility studies showed normal RBCs count and least hemolysis of 0.23 ± 0.081% for M-CLF-NLCs treated group. Cell viability studies revealed greater safety of NLCs than CLF-drug dispersion in the concentration range of 2.5–25 μg/ml. In vivo acute toxicity studies revealed no physiological or behavioral changes and no mortality recorded over 14 days period. In pharmacokinetic studies, a maximum concentration of the drug (C @sub_beginmax@sub_end) of 35.44 ± 0.34 μg/g from M-CLF-NLCs after 48 h and longer residence time in lung tissues observed due to its sustained release and mannose receptor-mediated endocytosis. M-CLF-NLCs showed a maximum AUC@sub_begin0–∞@sub_end value of 2691.83 h μg/ml in lungs that indicated twofold greater bioavailability as compared to CLF-drug dispersion. Thus, mannosylated NLCs can be used as promising carriers for the safe and effective delivery of CLF via inhalation route for the management of TB disease.

doi:10.2146/ajhp100624
Title:Aztreonam lysine for inhalation: New formulation of an old antibiotic
Authors:K. ZeitlerB. SalvasV. StevensJ. Brown
Absract:Purpose. The pharmacology, safety, efficacy, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, current place in therapy, and potential future therapeutic uses of inhaled aztreonam are reviewed. Summary. Inhaled aztreonam, a newly formulated lysine salt of the original monobactam antibiotic, is approved for the treatment of respiratory symptoms in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) who are colonized with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Its spectrum of activity is limited to susceptible gram-negative organisms, including P. aeruginosa. Lyophilized aztreonam lysine is diluted with 0.17% sodium chloride and administered using the Altera nebulizer system, which produces appropriate-sized particles for proper deposition in the lungs to achieve high sputum and low systemic concentrations. Mean sputum drug concentrations are highest 10 minutes after dose administration, and plasma concentrations peak one hour after inhalation. Aztreonam is excreted via active tubular secretion and glomerular filtration. Caution is advised in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, breastfeeding women, and patients age 65 years or older. Like the older i.v. formulation, inhaled aztreonam displays time-dependent killing. Phase III clinical trials have shown improvements in respiratory symptoms, decreased P. aeruginosa sputum density, prolonged time intervals between antibiotic treatments, and efficacy without the development of resistance in the face of repeated exposures. This formulation is available only from select specialty pharmacies and should only be used with the Altera nebulizer system. Conclusion. Inhaled aztreonam has shown efficacy and safety in patients seven years of age or older with CF who have P. aeruginosa airway infections. This product may complement existing therapies and offers the advantage of a new inhaled formulation to aid in treatment regimens. Copyright © 2012, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2020.101805
Title:Development of inhaled formulation of modified clofazimine as an alternative to treatment of tuberculosis: Clofazimine inhaled formulation for tuberculosis
Authors:R.R. de CastroV. TodaroL.C.R.P. da SilvaA. SimonF.A. do CarmoV.P. de SousaC.R. RodriguesB. SarmentoA.M. HealyL.M. Cabral
Absract:Inhalation drug delivery provides a possible useful alternative to oral drug delivery in the treatment of tuberculosis (TB). This work evaluated inclusion complexes of clofazimine (CFZ), an anti-TB drug with low aqueous solubility and potential gastric degradation, in β-cyclodextrin (βCD), γ-cyclodextrin, (2-hydroxypropyl)-β-cyclodextrin and sulfobutyl-ether-β-cyclodextrin. A phase solubility study indicated that βCD showed the best inclusion capacity for CFZ, so a CFZ:βCD complex (1:7) was selected for further studies. Particle engineering was performed using spray drying to obtain powders with suitable characteristics for pulmonary delivery and L-leucine was added to enhance powder dispersibility. Thermal and spectroscopic analyses indicated the CFZ:βCD integrity after spray drying, and the presence of L-leucine resulted in less hygroscopic and rougher particles, and a less agglomerated powder. All formulations, and especially those containing L-leucine, showed suitable in vitro deposition performance in the Next Generation Impactor and presented higher aqueous solubility compared to the free drug. In vitro studies showed low toxicity against Calu-3 and CFZ retention in the cell monolayer and apical compartment. These results suggest that the inhalation formulation composed of CFZ:βCD plus L-leucine should improve CFZ pulmonary bioavailability and provide an alternative treatment for TB, acting on the main infection site of the disease.

pui:2007088882
Title:Formulation development and in vitro & in vivo correlation of mucoadhesive nanospheres of isoniazid
Authors:V.V.R. BeeramS. KrupanidhiV. NadhB. Syed Salman
Absract:Isoniazid is a first line antitubercular agent, upon repeated dosing produces hepatotoxicity by oral administration. Pulmonary drug delivery can avoid the toxicity of drugs intended for tuberculosis. The study is an attempt to prepare mucoadhesive inhaled nanospheres of Isoniazid with polylactic glycolic acid (PLGA). The optimized formulation was selected using Box Behnken design. The lead formulation (F4) freeze dried INH-PLGA nanospheres (INH-NP's) was selected and prepared by high speed homogenization technique. INH-NP's characterization done by particle size, poly dispersity index, zetapotential, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier transform infra red spectroscopy (FTIR), Differential scanning colorimeter (DSC), stability studies, entrapment efficiency, ex vivo sheep nasal mucoadhesion studies,In vitro diffusion and drug release, cytotoxicity studies and In vivo pharmacokinetic studies using both serum and tissue analysis. Finally the nanospheres tested for their effect on mycobacterium using in vitro and in vivo microbial studies. The optimized INH-PLGA nanospheres showed 56.8 ± 2.22nm, 0.931± 0.02, -1.6±1.22mV, 94.42±2.20% and 96.80±2.60% of mean particle size, poly dispersity index, zeta potential, entrapment efficiency and drug content respectively. Potential interactions of INH and PLGA were found in FTIR and DSC studies without interfere in INH drug release. Bioadhesive property of INH-PLGA nanospheres was also found be enhance to 82±0.98%and permeation 89.54±1.20% compared to pure INH.The cytotoxicity studies resulted against the A549 showed significant IC50 ranges from 9.8 to 10.7. The bio distribution studies by IV and inhalation resulted that the Inhalation of INH-PLGA nanospheres with sustained drug release in the lungs. Mycobacterium studies revealed that the INH-PLGA nanospheres showed significant Log10CFUs inin vitro and in in vivo (18 days and 6 weeks) in mice compared to pure INH. The overall study concluded that the INH-PLGA nanospheres are potential pharmaceutical and therapeutic outcome for tuberculosis.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119444
Title:Effect of formulation and inhaler parameters on the dispersion of spray freeze dried voriconazole particles
Authors:Q. LiaoI.C.H. LamH.H.S. LinL.T.L. WanJ.C.K. LoW. TaiP.C.L. KwokJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Spray freeze drying is a particle engineering technique that allows the production of porous particles of low density with excellent aerosol performance for inhalation. There are a number of operating parameters that can be manipulated in order to optimise the powder properties. In this study, a two-fluid nozzle was used to prepare spray freeze dried formulation of voriconazole, a triazole antifungal agent for the treatment of pulmonary aspergillosis. A full factorial design approach was adopted to explore the effects of drug concentration, atomisation gas flow rate and primary drying temperature. The aerosol performance of the spray freeze dried powder was evaluated using the next generation impactor (NGI) operated with different inhaler devices and flow rates. The results showed that the primary drying temperature played an important role in determining the aerosol properties of the powder. In general, the higher the primary drying temperature, the lower the emitted fraction (EF) and the higher the fine particle fraction (FPF). Formulations that contained the highest voriconazole concentration (80% w/w) and prepared at a high primary drying temperature (−10 °C) exhibited the best aerosol performance under different experimental conditions. The high concentration of the hydrophobic voriconazole reduced surface energy and cohesion, hence better powder dispersibility. The powders produced with higher primary drying temperature had a smaller particle size after dispersion and improved aerosol property, possibly due to the faster sublimation rate in the freeze-drying step that led to the formation of less aggregating or more fragile particles. Moreover, Breezhaler®, which has a low intrinsic resistance, was able to generate the best aerosol performance of the spray freeze dried voriconazole powders in terms of FPF.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2014.10.009
Title:Impact of atomization technique on the stability and transport efficiency of nebulized liposomes harboring different surface characteristics
Authors:B. LehoferF. BloderP.P. JainL.M. MarshG. LeitingerH. OlschewskiR. LeberA. OlschewskiR. Prassl
Absract:The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of nebulization on liposomes with specific surface characteristics by applying three commercially available inhaler systems (air-jet, ultrasonic and vibrating-mesh). Conventional liposome formulations composed of phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol were compared to sterically stabilized PEGylated liposomes and cationic polymer coated liposomes. Liposomes of similar size (between 140 and 165 nm in diameter with polydispersity indices <0.1) were prepared by dry lipid film rehydration followed by size extrusion. Their stability upon nebulization was determined in terms of size, polydispersity index and leakage using a fluorescence quenching system. The transport efficiencies of the nebulizer devices and the influences of both salt and liposomes on the droplet size distribution of the aerosol were investigated. While the droplet size of the aerosol decreased with increasing salt concentration the liposomes had no influence on the droplet size distribution. The output of the nebulizers in terms of liposomal transport efficiencies differed significantly among the nebulizer principles (20-100%, p < 0.05), with the vibrating-mesh nebulizers being the most effective. The integrity of the conventional liposomes was almost unaffected by the atomization process, while polymer coated and especially positively charged liposomes showed enhanced leakage. The release rates for the hydrophilic model drug system were highest for the vibrating-mesh nebulizers regardless of the surface characteristics of the liposomes (increasing from 10% to 20% and 50% for the conventional, PEGylated and positively charged formulations, respectively). In view of surface modified liposomes our data suggest that drug delivery via nebulization necessitates the finding of a compromise between nebulizer efficiency, formulation stability and drug release profile to accomplish the development of tailored formulations suitable for advanced inhalation therapy.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.02.010
Title:Stabilization of IgG1 in spray-dried powders for inhalation
Authors:S. SchüleT. Schulz-FademrechtP. GaridelK. Bechtold-PetersW. Frieß
Absract:The protein stabilizing capabilities of spray-dried IgG1/mannitol formulations were evaluated. The storage stability was tested at different residual moisture levels prepared by vacuum-drying or equilibration prior to storage. Vacuum-drying at 32 °C/0.1 mbar for 24 h reduced the moisture level below 1%, constituting an optimal basis for improved storage stability. The crystalline IgG1/mannitol powders with a weight ratio of 20/80 up to 40/60 failed to prevent the antibody aggregation as assessed by size exclusion chromatography during storage. Ratios of 60/40 up to 80/20 IgG1/mannitol provided superior stability of the antibody and the powders could be produced with high yields. The lower the residual moisture, the better was the stabilizing capability. An amount of 20% mannitol provided the best stabilization. Storage stability of 60/40, 70/30, and 80/20 IgG1/mannitol formulations over one year was adequate at 2-8 °C and 25 °C. Closed storage (sealed in vials) at 40 °C/75% RH and open storage at 25 °C/60% RH revealed that the stability still required optimization. The lower the protein content, the better was the powder flowability. The aerodynamic properties of powders spray-dried with 10% solids content were inadequate, as the particle size ranged between 5.1 and 7.2 μm and the fine particle fraction accounted for only 4-11%. Reduction of the solids content to 2.5% did improve the aerodynamic properties as the mass mean aerodynamic diameter was reduced to 3.6 μm and the fine particle fraction was increased to about 14%. The reduction of the solids content did not influence the storage stability significantly. Also spray-drying at higher temperatures had no significant impact on the storage stability, despite a higher tendency to form amorphous systems. In order to improve the storage stability and to maintain the good flowability of 70/30 IgG1/mannitol powder or to keep the storage stability but to improve the flowability of the 80/20 IgG1/mannitol powder, mannitol was partially substituted by a second excipient such as trehalose, sucrose, glycine, lactose, lactosucrose, or dextran 1. Differences in the stabilizing capability were noticeable upon closed storage at 40 °C/75% RH and open powder storage. Protein stabilization was improved by the addition of glycine but trehalose and sucrose were most effective in preventing aggregation, which can be primarily attributed to the water replacement properties of the sugars. The addition of another excipient, isoleucine had positive effects on both flowability and protein stability. © 2008 International Association for Pharmaceutical Technology.

doi:10.1159/000489034
Title:Human Pharmacokinetics and Adverse Effects of Pulmonary and Intravenous THC-CBD Formulations
Authors:P. MeyerM. LangosR. Brenneisen
Absract:Background: Due to variable absorption and extensive first-pass metabolism, the bioavailability of oral delta-9-tetra-hydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) is low, and, therefore, alternative application forms are necessary. Methods: In an open-label, 2-period phase-1 study on 11 healthy volunteers, a combination of THC and CBD was compared by pulmonary (inh) and intravenous (iv) application. The liquid aerosol was produced by an in vitro validated pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) device, releasing 41-44% of the cannabinoid dose, enabling a dosage of 81 μg THC and 87 μg CBD per actuation. Three subjects (pilot trial, low-dose session) received 324 and 348 μg THC and CBD, respectively, and 8 subjects (main trial, high-dose session) received 648 and 696 μg THC and CBD, respectively. The addition of the local anesthetic lidocaine to the inh preparation should prevent airways irritation and coughing. The pharmacokinetic evaluation was based on plasma profiles acquired by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Adverse effects were monitored by visual analog scales and measuring vital functions. Results: After low inh doses, THC and CBD were not measurable in plasma longer than 20 and 40 min after administration, respectively. Therefore, only plasma levels resulting after high doses were further evaluated. After inh and iv administration, THC plasma peaks were observed 5 min post-drug, with THC peak concentrations ranging from 3 to 22 and from 13 to 40 ng/mL, respectively. CBD peaks were also measured 5 min after inh and iv administration, with concentrations ranging from 2 to 17 and from 14 to 26 ng/mL, respectively. The elimination half-lives were 7 and 11 min after inh and 22 and 24 min after iv administration for THC and CBD, respectively. The mean inh bioavailability (calculated vs. iv) was 55 ± 37 and 59 ± 47% for THC and CBD, respectively. Conjugated 11-carboxy-THC was the main THC metabolite. The nebulized aerosol was generally well tolerated with little or no coughing and only slight psychological adverse effects. These were more distinct after iv administration, especially irritations and hallucinations. Besides moderate tachycardia, the vital functions stayed unchanged. Conclusions: We conclude that a THC-CBD inh aerosol shows favorable pharmacokinetic properties, which are similar to those of an iv preparation. Adding a local anesthetic is recommended to prevent coughing, which decreases absorption. The negligible psychoactivity may be due to an anti-psychotic effect of CBD, the low THC dosage, and/or the decreased formation of the psychoactive metabolite 11- hydroxy-THC. Therefore, the inhalation via a pMDI is a viable, safe, and well-tolerated alternative to the oral administration.


doi:10.2174/1381612822666160202142104
Title:In vitro pulmonary cell culture in pharmaceutical inhalation aerosol delivery: 2-D, 3-D, and in situ bioimpactor models
Authors:M.F. AcostaP. MuralidharanS.A. MeenachD. HayesS.M. BlackH.M. Mansour
Absract:Background: The use of non-invasive inhaled aerosols for pulmonary drug delivery continues to grow. This is due to the many unique advantages this delivery route offers for the treatment of both local and systemic diseases. The physicochemical properties of the formulated drugs as well as the physiology of the lungs play a key role in both the deposition and absorption of the particles. The airway and the alveolar epithelium are targets for the treatment of respiratory diseases. However, particles have to overcome biological barriers before they reach their target and produce an effect. Methods: In vitro aerosol dispersion performance (i.e. aerodynamic size and aerodynamic size distribution) of inhalable particles is quantified by inertial impaction, as required by regulatory agencies for an investigational pharmaceutical inhalation aerosol formulation to be approved for use in patients as a marketed pharmaceutical product. Using inertial impaction in conjunction with cell cultures of various pulmonary cells in situ as bioimpactors has unique aspects in correlating aerodynamic properties with pulmonary cellular behavior including viability and uptake. These can be as co-culture or in single culture, as 3-D multicellular spheroids or 2-D cellular monolayer using different conditions to grow them, such as air-liquid interface culture (ALI) or in liquid covered culture (LCC). Results: evaluation of the currently available in vitro models and the challenges in developing reliable cellular tools to predict the deposition of inhalable particles in the lungs as a function of aerodynamic particle properties is presented in the manuscript. Conclusion: The mechanistic aerodynamic and biophysical properties of inhaled aerosol particles on the entire respiratory tract at the cellular level based on aerodynamic size and aerodynamic size distribution will be better understood with the development of in vitro methods which are described in this work.

doi:10.1345/aph.1E522
Title:Inhaled insulin: Exubera
Authors:P.S. OdegardK.L. Capoccia
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of Exubera, a novel, dry-powder formulation of insulin for inhalation, and describe patient satisfaction and quality-of-life data. DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search (1966-November 2004) was conducted using the key words inhaled insulin and Exubera for clinical trials limited to human research published in English. BIOSIS Previews and the American Diabetes Association Scientific Abstracts were used for published abstract information. STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All available human studies of Exubera were selected for review. References of identified articles were used for additional citations. DATA SYNTHESIS: Exubera is a rapid-acting insulin administered by oral inhalation before meals with long-acting insulin administered subcutaneously once or twice daily for type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus. Exubera provides similar efficacy and improved patient satisfaction compared with standard subcutaneous insulin therapy (ie, NPH twice daily with regular insulin before meals). Efficacy has also been demonstrated for Exubera when used as adjunctive therapy with oral medications for type 2 diabetes. The onset of Exubera is more rapid and its duration of action is similar to that of regular insulin. To date, Exubera administered before meals with a once-daily long-acting subcutaneous insulin (usually Ultralente) has been compared with standard subcutaneous NPH/regular insulin regimens. Comparison of premeal Exubera plus a basal long-acting insulin analog (eg, glargine) with a regimen of premeal subcutaneous rapid-acting insulin analog (eg, lispro or aspart) plus a basal long-acting insulin analog (eg, glargine) is needed to fully evaluate Exubera. Pulmonary safety appears to be maintained for up to 4 years, although there are no data, as of this writing, on the use of this agent in patients with pulmonary conditions. CONCLUSIONS: Exubera is an effective inhaled insulin for preprandial use in type 1 or 2 diabetes. Improved patient satisfaction over injected insulin increases its potential for use earlier in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12060557
Title:Comparison between colistin sulfate dry powder and solution for pulmonary delivery
Authors:F. TewesJ. BrillaultN. GregoireJ.-C. OlivierI. LamarcheC. AdierA.-M. HealyS. Marchand
Absract:To assess the difference in the fate of the antibiotic colistin (COLI) after its pulmonary delivery as a powder or a solution, we developed a COLI powder and evaluated the COLI pharmacokinetic properties in rats after pulmonary administration of the powder or the solution. The amorphous COLI powder prepared by spray drying was characterized by a mass median aerodynamic diameter and fine particle fraction of 2.68 ± 0.07 µm and 59.5 ± 5.4%, respectively, when emitted from a Handihaler®. After intratracheal administration, the average pulmonary epithelial lining fluid (ELF): plasma area under the concentration versus time curves (AUC) ratios were 570 and 95 for the COLI solution and powder, respectively. However, the same COLI plasma concentration profiles were obtained with the two formulations. According to our pharmacokinetic model, this difference in ELF COLI concentration could be due to faster systemic absorption of COLI after the powder inhalation than for the solution. In addition, the COLI apparent permeability (P@sub_beginapp@sub_end) across a Calu-3 epithelium model increased 10-fold when its concentration changed from 100 to 4000 mg/L. Based on this last result, we propose that the difference observed in vivo between the COLI solution and powder could be due to a high local ELF COLI concentration being obtained at the site where the dry particles impact the lung. This high local COLI concentration can lead to a local increase in COLI P@sub_beginapp@sub_end, which is associated with a high concentration gradient and could produce a high local transfer of COLI across the epithelium and a consequent increase in the overall absorption rate of COLI.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2014.09.005
Title:Engineering hydrophobically modified chitosan for enhancing the dispersion of respirable microparticles of levofloxacin
Authors:Z. MerchantK.M.G. TaylorP. StapletonS.A. RazakN. KundaI. AlfagihK. SheikhI.Y. SaleemS. Somavarapu
Absract:The potential of amphiphilic chitosan formed by grafting octanoyl chains on the chitosan backbone for pulmonary delivery of levofloxacin has been studied. The success of polymer synthesis was confirmed using FT-IR and NMR, whilst antimicrobial activity was assessed against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Highly dispersible dry powders for delivery as aerosols were prepared with different amounts of chitosan and octanoyl chitosan to study the effect of hydrophobic modification and varying concentration of polymer on aerosolization of drug. Powders were prepared by spray-drying from an aqueous solution containing levofloxacin and chitosan/amphiphilic octanoyl chitosan. l-leucine was also used to assess its effect on aerosolization. Following spray-drying, the resultant powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy, laser diffraction, dynamic light scattering, HPLC, differential scanning calorimetry, thermogravimetric analysis and X-ray powder diffraction. The in vitro aerosolization profile was determined using a Next Generation Impactor, whilst in vitro antimicrobial assessment was performed using MIC assay. Microparticles of chitosan have the property of mucoadhesion leading to potential increased residence time in the pulmonary mucus, making it important to test the toxicity of these formulations. In-vitro cytotoxicity evaluation using MTT assay was performed on A549 cell line to determine the toxicity of formulations and hence feasibility of use. The MTT assay confirmed that the polymers and the formulations were non-cytotoxic. Hydrophobically modifying chitosan showed significantly lower MIC (4-fold) than the commercial chitosan against P. aeruginosa. The powders generated were of suitable aerodynamic size for inhalation having a mass median aerodynamic diameter less than 4.5 μm for formulations containing octanoyl chitosan. These highly dispersible powders have minimal moisture adsorption and hence an emitted dose of more than 90% and a fine particle fraction (FPF) of 52%. Powders with non-modified chitosan showed lower dispersibility, with an emitted dose of 72% and FPF of 20%, as a result of high moisture adsorption onto the chitosan matrix leading to cohesiveness and subsequently decreased dispersibility.

doi:10.1111/j.1365-2885.2007.00859.x
Title:Clinical evaluation of a new formulation of propofol in a medium-chain and long-chain triglycerides emulsion in dogs
Authors:J.I. Redondo García
Absract:Propofol formulated in a mixed medium-chain and long-chain triglycerides emulsion has been recently introduced for clinical use as an alternative to the conventional long-chain triglycerides formulation. This prospective multicentric study evaluated the clinical effectiveness and the complications associated with the use of this new formulation of propofol in dogs. Forty-six Spanish veterinary clinics participated in this study. A total of 541 anaesthesias (118 ASA I, 290 ASA II, 101 ASA III and 32 ASA IV) performed for various diagnostic and therapeutic purposes were evaluated. The anaesthetic protocol was not controlled, with the exception that propofol had to be used at least for induction of anaesthesia. The induction dose of propofol and the incidence of anaesthetic complications throughout the procedure were recorded. A chi-square test compared the incidence of complications according to the maintenance agent used (propofol vs. inhalatory anaesthesia), anaesthetic risk (ASA classification) and the reason for the anaesthesia. The patients premedicated with α@sub_begin2@sub_end agonists needed lower doses (mean ± SD, 2.9 ± 1.3 mg/kg i.v.) than the animals premedicated with phenothiazines (3.9 ± 1.4 mg/kg i.v.) or benzodiazepines (4.0 ± 1.4 mg/kg i.v.). The most frequent complications were difficult endotracheal intubation (1.3%), postinduction apnoea (11.3%), cyanosis (0.6%), bradypnoea (2.6%), tachypnoea (2.8%), bradycardia (2%), tachycardia (2.6%), hypotension (0.2%), shock (0.2%), vomiting (4.6%), epileptiform seizures (2.8%), premature awakening (7.4%) and delayed recovery (0.9%). There were no cases of pain on injection or aspiration pneumonia. Three dogs died (0.55%), one during induction and two during recovery from anaesthesia. This study demonstrates that the new formulation of propofol is an useful and effective drug to induce general anaesthesia in dogs. © 2007 The Author.

doi:10.2147/IJN.S286896
Title:Development of inhalable nanostructured lipid carriers for ciprofloxacin for noncystic fibrosis bronchiectasis treatment
Authors:A.S. AlmurshediH.A. AljunaidelB. AlquadeibB.N. AldosariI.M. AlfagihS.S. AlmarshidyE.K.D. EltahirA.Z. Mohamoud
Absract:Purpose: Ciprofloxacin (CIP) has poor lung targeting after oral inhalation. This study developed optimized inhalable nanostructured lipid carriers (NLCs) for CIP to enhance deposition and accumulation in deeper parts of the lungs for treatment of noncystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (NCFB). Methods: NLC formulations based on stearic acid and oleic acid were successfully prepared by hot homogenization and in vitro-characterized. CIP-NLCs were formulated into nano- composite micro particles (NCMPs) for administration in dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations by spray-drying (SD) using different ratios of chitosan (CH) as a carrier. DPI formulations were evaluated for drug content and in vitro deposition, and their mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), fine particle fraction (FPF), fine particle dose (FPD), and emitted dose (ED) were determined. Results: The CIP-NLCs were in the nanometric size range (102.3 ± 4.6 nm), had a low polydispersity index (0.267 ± 0.12), and efficient CIP encapsulation (98.75% ± 0.048%), in addition to a spherical and smooth shape with superior antibacterial activity. The in vitro drug release profile of CIP from CIP-NLCs showed 80% release in 10 h. SD of CIP-NLCs with different ratios of CH generated NCMPs with good yield (>65%). The NCMPs had a corrugated surface, but with increasing lipid:CH ratios, more spherical, smooth, and homogenous NCMPs were obtained. In addition, there was a significant change in the FPF with increasing lipid:CH ratios (P ≤ 0.05). NCMP-1 (lipid:CH = 1:0.5) had the highest FPD (45.0 µg) and FPF (49.2%), while NCMP-3 (lipid:CH = 1:1.5) had the lowest FPF (37.4%). All NCMP powders had an MMAD in the optimum size range of 3.9-5.1 µm. Conclusion: Novel inhalable CIP NCMP powders are a potential new approach to improved target ability and delivery of CIP for NCFB treatment.

doi:10.2174/1381612822666160317142139
Title:A new era of pulmonary delivery of nano-antimicrobial therapeutics to treat chronic pulmonary infections
Authors:Z. MerchantG. BucktonK.M.G. TaylorP. StapletonI.Y. SaleemM.G. ZariwalaS. Somavarapu
Absract:Pulmonary infections may be fatal especially in immunocompromised patients and patients with underlying pulmonary dysfunction, such as those with cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, etc. According to the WHO, lower respiratory tract infections ranked first amongst the leading causes of death in 2012, and tuberculosis was included in the top 10 causes of death in low income countries, placing a considerable strain on their economies and healthcare systems. Eradication of lower respiratory infections is arduous, leading to high healthcare costs and requiring higher doses of antibiotics to reach optimal concentrations at the site of pulmonary infection for protracted periods. Hence direct inhalation to the respiratory epithelium has been investigated extensively in the past decade, and seems to be an attractive approach to eradicate and hence overcome this widespread problem. Moreover, engineering inhalation formulations wherein the antibiotics are encapsulated within nanoscale carriers could serve to overcome many of the limitations faced by conventional antibiotics, like difficulty in treating intracellular pathogens such as mycobacteria spp. and salmonella spp., biofilmassociated pathogens like Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, passage through the sputum associated with disorders like cystic fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, systemic side effects following oral/parenteral delivery and inadequate concentrations of antibiotic at the site of infection leading to resistance. Encapsulation of antibiotics in nanocarriers may help in providing a protective environment to combat antibiotic degradation, confer controlled-release properties, hence reducing dosing frequency, and may increase uptake via specific and non-specific targeting modalities. Hence nanotechnology combined with direct administration to the airways using commercially available delivery devices, is a highly attractive formulation strategy to eradicate microorganisms from the lower respiratory tract, which might otherwise present opportunities for multi-drug resistance.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2012.04.004
Title:The efficacy of aerosol treatment with non-ionic surfactant vesicles containing amphotericin B in rodent models of leishmaniasis and pulmonary aspergillosis infection
Authors:M. AlsaadiJ.L. ItaliaA.B. MullenM.N.V.R. KumarA.A. CandlishR.A.M. WilliamsC.D. ShawF. Al GawhariG.H. CoombsM. WieseA.H. ThomsonM. Puig-SellartJ. WallaceA. SharpL. WheelerP. WarnK.C. Carter
Absract:Amphotericin B (AMB) is used to treat both fungal and leishmanial infections, which are of major significance to human health. Clinical use of free AMB is limited by its nephrotoxicity, whereas liposomal AMB is costly and requires parenteral administration, thus development of novel formulations with enhanced efficacy, minimal toxicity and that can be applied via non-invasive routes is required. In this study we analysed the potential of non-ionic surfactant vesicles (NIV) given by nebulisation to deliver AMB to the lungs, liver and skin. Treatment with AMB-NIV resulted in significantly higher drug levels in the lungs and skin (p < 0.05) compared to similar treatment with AMB solution but significantly lower plasma levels (p < 0.05). Treatment with AMB-NIV resulted in a significant reduction in fungal lung burdens in a rat model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (p < 0.05) compared to treatment with the carrier alone. Treatment with AMB-NIV but not AMB solution significantly suppressed Leishmania donovani liver parasite burdens (p < 0.05) but could not inhibit the growth of cutaneous Leishmania major lesions. The results of this study indicate that aerosolised NIV enhanced pulmonary and hepatic delivery whilst minimising systemic exposure and toxicity. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1093/toxsci/kfp195
Title:Investigations of the use of bioavailability data to adjust occupational exposure limits for active pharmaceutical ingredients
Authors:B.D. NaumannP.A. WeidemanR. SarangapaniS.-C. HuR. DixitE.V. Sargent
Absract:Occupational exposure limits (OELs) for active pharmaceutical ingredients have traditionally been established using no-observed-adverse-effect levels derived from clinical studies employing po and iv routes of administration and by applying default uncertainty factors or chemical-specific adjustment factors. However, exposure by the inhalation or dermal route is more relevant in terms of occupational safety. In this investigation, to explore new methods for route-to-route extrapolation, the bioavailability of MK-0679, a leukotriene D@sup_begin4@sup_end receptor antagonist, was compared following iv, po, intranasal (in), or intratracheal (it) administration. The relative bioavailability of MK-0679 was iv ≅ it > po ≅ in. Bioavailability correction factors (BCFs) of 2.0 and 0.6 were derived from these data to adjust a hypothetical OEL of 0.1 mg/m @sup_begin3@sup_end for MK-0679 with particle sizes of 10 and 50 μm, respectively. These BCFs were used to adjust the OEL established using po clinical data, to reflect the differences in bioavailability following deposition in different regions of the respiratory tract. To further investigate how bioavailability data could be used in setting OELs, a preliminary pharmacokinetic (PK) model was developed to describe the time course of plasma concentrations using the data from the route comparison study. An inhalation study was then performed to test the validity of using either empirical data or modeling approaches to derive BCFs when setting OELs. These investigations demonstrated how the use of route-specific PK data could reduce some of the uncertainties associated with route-to-route extrapolation and allow for improved precision and quantitative adjustments when establishing OELs. Further investigations are needed to better understand the factors responsible for differences in systemic uptake following deposition in different regions of the respiratory tract and how these can be generalized across different classes of soluble compounds. © The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2165/00126839-200405030-00007
Title:Insulin inhalation - Pfizer/Nektar Therapeutics: HMR 4006, inhaled PEG-insulin - Nektar, PEGylated insulin, Nektar
Authors:B.D. NaumannP.A. WeidemanR. SarangapaniS.-C. HuR. DixitE.V. Sargent
Absract:Nektar Therapeutics (formerly Inhale Therapeutic Systems) has developed a pulmonary drug delivery system for insulin [HMR 4006, Exubera®]. The rationale behind developing a pulmonary drug delivery system is to ensure that insulin powder is delivered deep into the lungs, where it is easily absorbed into the bloodstream, in a hand-held inhalation device. The device converts the insulin powder particles into an aerosol cloud for the patient to inhale. No propellants are used. The inhaler requires no power source and the clear chamber ensures that the patient knows immediately when all the insulin has been inhaled. Nektar Therapeutics, developers of the inhalation device and formulation process, has licensed the system to Pfizer. Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer will lead the clinical development of inhaled insulin, while working with Nektar Therapeutics to develop the technology required for packaging the product. Pfizer has an agreement with Hoechst Marion Roussel (now Aventis Pharma) for developing, manufacturing and promoting inhaled insulin. Under the terms of the collaboration, Aventis Pharma will supply recombinant insulin to Nektar Therapeutics to process it into dry powder for incorporation into the inhaler device. Nektar Therapeutics will receive royalties on sales of inhaled insulin marketed by Pfizer and Aventis Pharma, and milestone payments and research support from Pfizer. Aventis Pharma's codename for the product is HMR 4006. Profil, a CRO in Germany, is cooperating with Pfizer/Aventis Pharma in the development of inhaled insulin. In March 2004, Pfizer and Aventis announced that the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) accepted the filing of the MAA for inhaled insulin (Exubera®) for the treatment of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The two companies are working with the US FDA to determine the timing for the submission of the NDA in the US. Pfizer completed five pivotal phase III clinical trials with inhaled insulin in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus in 120 centres worldwide, and will use a fourth prototype inhaler device that is half the size of the first prototype, and has reduced manufacturing costs. Pfizer and its partner, Aventis Pharma, are conducting additional long-term pulmonary safety data studies in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Pfizer is also conducting phase III clinical trials with inhaled insulin in paediatric patients aged 6-17 years. Nektar Therapeutics is using its Advanced PEGylation technology to develop a dry powder-inhaled polyethylene glycol (PEG) formulation for delivering peptides efficiently across the lungs and to promote prolonged serum concentration of the peptide. PEG is a neutral, water-soluble, nontoxic polymer comprising any number of repeating units of ethylene oxide. PEGylation is designed to increase the size of the active molecule and ultimately improve drug performance by optimising pharmacokinetics, increasing bioavailability, and decreasing immunogenicity and dosing frequency. The investigation has begun with inhaled, long-acting (PEGylated) insulin [inhaled PEG-insulin, PEGylated insulin - Nektar], and is funded by Pfizer. Preclinical results of a dry powder formulation of inhaled PEG-insulin presented at the 63rd Scientific Sessions of the American Diabetes Association (ADA-2003) [June 2003, New Orleans, LA, USA] demonstrated prolonged systemic activity of insulin in dogs. Nektar Therapeutics was granted US patent 5 997 848 on a method for delivering inhalable insulin. The patent covers a method for delivering of 0.5-15mg of aerosol dry powder insulin per dosing session in 1-4 individual dosages into the deep lung for systemic absorption. The patent does not specify the formulation of insulin or aerosol delivery device. Nektar Therapeutics estimated in June 2002 that Exubera® could earn the company potential revenues of >$US200 million. © 2004 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1080/10837450.2020.1852570
Title:Dry powder inhalation formulation of chitosan nanoparticles for co-administration of isoniazid and pyrazinamide
Authors:N. ChangsanC. Sinsuebpol
Absract:Co-loaded isoniazid and pyrazinamide chitosan nanoparticles were formulated using the ionic gelation method. The formulations were adjusted to five mass ratios of tripolyphosphate (TPP) and chitosan at three TPP concentrations. Particle size, polydispersity index, zeta potential, and encapsulation efficiency were used to evaluate all formulations. The results revealed that the ratio of TPP to chitosan had the highest impact in generating chitosan nanoparticles. The selected nanoparticle formulations were freeze-dried, and the obtained dry powders were characterized using scanning electron microscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, X-ray diffraction, and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy to confirm the interaction of loaded drug and formulation excipients. The aerosolized performance of dry powders was also evaluated using the Andersen cascade impactor. A mass median aerodynamic diameter of 3.3–3.5 µm, % fine particle fraction of 30–44%, and 92–95% emitted dose were obtained from all formulations. The dry powder formulations were not toxic to the respiratory tract cell lines. Furthermore, they did not provoke alveolar macrophages into producing inflammatory cytokines or nitric oxides, indicating that the formulations are safe and could potentially be used to deliver to respiratory tract for tuberculosis treatment.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119766
Title:Application of void forming index (VFI): Detection of the effect of physical properties of dry powder inhaler formulations on powder cohesion
Authors:S. MaruyamaS. AndoE. Yonemochi
Absract:Dry powder inhaler (DPI) is an attractive alternative for non-invasive drug administration and can make the use of critical biopharmaceutical formulations more convenient for patients. Inhalation of biopharmaceutical formulations can provide targeted delivery to the lungs as well as systemic delivery. Generally, biopharmaceutical DPI formulations consist of highly cohesive powders that tend to agglomerate. For successful delivery to the lungs, the detection of powder cohesiveness and its effect on the performance of the formulations is mandatory. Herein, the effects of the physical properties of mannitol on the cohesiveness of DPI formulations were investigated. The powder cohesion was detected using the void forming index (VFI) measured by inverse gas chromatography (iGC) at 4 h (VFI@sub_begin4h@sub_end), which was defined as the pressure drop ratio of 4 h purged sample to that of the initial sample. VFI@sub_begin4h@sub_end was found to correlate well with the cohesiveness of DPI formulations. The amount of investigated samples required for VFI measurement was less than that required for conventional measurements. VFI showed a good relationship between the cohesiveness of DPI formulations and the physical properties of mannitol. Thus, VFI can be a reliable standard index to evaluate the cohesiveness of DPI formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.05.032
Title:Exploring the effects of high shear blending on lactose and drug using fluidised bed elutriation
Authors:J.P. WillettsP.T. RobbinsT.C. RocheM. BowleyR.H. Bridson
Absract:Powder formulations comprising inhalation grade lactose and a mimic drug (cholesterol) were prepared using a high shear blending process for which the total energy input could be quantified. The formulations were fluidised in a classic fluidised bed system, to determine whether blending-induced changes could be determined through either bulk fluidisation behaviour or the characteristics of elutriated fractions from the powder beds. The evolution of the fluidisation regime within the powder beds (Δ pressure vs. superficial gas velocity) and total mass of elutriated material were not sensitive measures to differentiate between blended and unblended samples. However, blended and unblended material could be distinguished by the size distributions of the elutriated fractions. The study also showed that there were no further changes in the size distribution of the elutriated fractions once a chemically homogenous mixture of lactose and drug had been produced. However, further blending beyond this 'point of homogeneity' continued to change the lactose particle size distribution of the bulk powder; this may have implications for blend end point determination for these types of formulation. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2011.11.004
Title:Physico-chemical aspects of lactose for inhalation
Authors:X. KouL.W. ChanH. SteckelP.W.S. Heng
Absract:A dry powder inhaler (DPI) is a dosage form that consists of a powder formulation in a device which is designed to deliver an active ingredient to the respiratory tract. It has been extensively investigated over the past years and several aspects relating to device and particulate delivery mechanisms have been the focal points for debate. DPI formulations may or may not contain carrier particles but whenever a carrier is included in a commercial formulation, it is almost invariably lactose monohydrate. Many physicochemical properties of the lactose carrier particles have been reported to affect the efficiency of a DPI. A number of preparation methods have been developed which have been claimed to produce lactose carriers with characteristics which lead to improved deposition. Alongside these developments, a number of characterization methods have been developed which have been reported to be useful in the measurement of key properties of the particulate ingredients. This review describes the various physicochemical characteristics of lactose, methods of manufacturing lactose particulates and their characterization. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

pui:29517652
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of Cocamide MEA
Authors:F.A. Andersen
Absract:Cocamide MEA is a mixture of ethanolamines of fatty acids derived from coconut oil. This cosmetic ingredient functions as a surfactant - foam booster and an aqueous viscosity-increasing agent. To supplement the available data on Cocamide MEA, data from previous safety assessments of Coconut Oil and its derivatives, Monoethanolamine (MEA), and Cocamide DEA (Diethanolamine) were included in this safety assessment. These data suggest little acute, short-term, or chronic toxicity associated with dermal application. MEA vapor, however, is highly toxic. Although DEA is readily nitrosated to form N-nitrosodiethanolamine, a known animal carcinogen, MEA has not been found to form a stable nitrosamine. Dermal application of Cocamide MEA at concentrations of 50% was nonirritating to mildly irritating in animal tests. For comparison, Cocamide DEA at a concentration of 30% was a moderate irritant; Coconut Oil was nonsensitizing; and MEA was irritating and corrosive. Cocamide MEA was negative in the Ames Test. Cocamide DEA was positive in some mutagenesis assays, but negative in others. In clinical tests, Cocamide MEA at a concentration of 50% was not irritating in a single- insult patch test. Cocamide DEA at 2% in formulation caused irritation, but not sensitization. Predictive patch tests with a surfactant containing Cocamide DEA at 10% produced no adverse effects. Inhalation of MEA by humans is toxic. Based on the limited data available data on Cocamide MEA, and on the data on those ingredients previously reviewed, particularly Cocamide DEA, it was concluded that Cocamide MEA is safe as used in rinse-off products and safe at concentrations up to 10% in leave-on products. It was further concluded, however, that Cocamide MEA should not be used as an ingredient in cosmetic products in which N-nitroso compounds are formed or in formulations that will be aerosolized.

doi:10.1097/01.mjt.0000145357.13410.a9
Title:Development of a dry powder inhaler, the Ultrahaler®, containing triamcinolone acetonide using in vitro-in vivo relationships
Authors:J.G.P. LimB. ShahS. RohatagiA. Bell
Absract:Triamcinolone acetonide (TAA) is safe and effective corticosteroid that is marketed as an MDI (metered dose inhaler) (Azmacort) for the treatment of asthma. A novel dry powder inhaler (DPI), the Ultrahaler®, has been developed to deliver Azmacort as another alternative to provide non-CFC formulation for the asthmatic patients. The Ultrahaler® is breath actuated and, unlike MDI, does not require coordination of inhalation with the actuation of the device. However, with the Ultrahaler® device, like any dry powder inhalation device, the challenge was the on-target and uniform delivery of the drug at the site of action (lungs) with different dose strengths. Due to the complexities of oral inhaled formulations and the topical nature of drug delivery to the lung for efficacy, the reformulation requires careful consideration and support throughout their development, using a combination of in vitro and in vivo studies. This paper describes in vitro studies and two clinical pharmacokinetic studies conducted in a sequence that helped to establish optimum doses for the Ultrahaler®. In vitro data were used to guide the initial selection of doses that were then compared in vivo using a pharmacokinetic study with a charcoal block. The in vitro tests included quantifying the target-delivered dose, dose uniformity throughout the life of the device, and the particle size distribution. Particle size distribution was measured using multistage liquid impinger (MSLI) or the Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). For in vitro testing, TAA was measured by HPLC methods. Based on the preliminary in vitro data for the respirable fraction, dose strengths with an MDI and the Ultrahaler® for the first study were determined. The in vivo assessment consisted of a four-way crossover study following oral inhalation using both MDI (75 and 225 μg/actuation, reference treatment) and comparable respirable doses in the DPI (130 and 360 μg/actuation) devices in healthy volunteers in the presence (lung deposition) and absence (lung and oropharynx deposition) of the charcoal block. Plasma TAA concentrations were determined using a radioimmunoassay (RIA) method. The in vitro data also showed dose proportionality with DPI formulation, and the doses delivered were within 13% of the target doses. A measure of dose uniformity, the relative standard deviation (%RSD) of dose, was less than 15%. Plasma TAA exposure of DPI formulations was compared with that of MDI formulations. Mean ratios (DPI/MDI) of the AUC @sub_begininf@sub_end were close to unity for the lower dose strength. However, for the higher dose strength, plasma exposure was higher with the Ultrahaler® formulation as compared with the MDI formulation (mean AUC@sub_begininf@sub_end DPI/MDI ratios: 1.96). These differences seem to be due to less than proportional increases in the MDI formulation. Based on these results and using the higher dose strength of the MDI as the comparator, the new dose strengths of the Ultrahaler® were chosen, ie, 100, 225, and 450 μg/actuation. Plasma TAA concentrations were measured by LC/MS/MS methods. The mean TAA concentrations and AUC@sub_begininf@sub_end and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values increased in a dose-proportional manner with an increase in dose for the DPI formulation. The pharmacokinetic parameters showed low variability (10%-33%). Fine particle mass (in vitro testing) and TAA exposure in plasma following DPI administration were compared. Fine particle performance in vitro related well with in vivo pharmacokinetic performance (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = AUC@sub_begininf@sub_end - 0.9998, C @sub_beginmax@sub_end - 0.9956). In conclusion, in vitro and in vivo data were in agreement and good control over the target-dose delivery and dose proportionality could be achieved in the early stages of the development of the Ultrahaler® device and were critical in guiding and ensuring the success of the reformulation efforts for Azmacort. © 2006 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.

doi:10.2174/1567201811666140716123050
Title:Inhaled dry powder formulations for treating tuberculosis
Authors:S. DasI. TuckerP. Stewart
Absract:Tuberculosis is the second leading cause of death from infectious diseases. Although antitubercular drugs have been traditionally administered orally, there is a growing interest in delivering drugs via the pulmonary route using nebulisers or dry powder inhalers. Drugs in dry powder inhalers (DPI) are stable and DPI are user-friendly compared to nebulisation which is time consuming, inconvenient and inefficient and requires special equipment. For tuberculosis treatment, drugs should target alveolar macrophages that harbour microorganisms and/or maintain high drug concentration at the infection site in the lung. Drug particles include micro-particles or nanoparticles. Powders can be engineered by micronisation, crystallisation, spray drying, freeze drying and particle coating approaches. The formulation may contain single or combination drugs. This paper will provide an update on current status of TB, its pathogenesis, current treatment strategies, shortcomings of current oral or parenteral delivery strategies, pulmonary delivery devices, advantages of pulmonary delivery of powder formulations, formulation approaches and pharmacokinetic studies of pulmonary delivery of powders for inhalation.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666151008124159
Title:The application of modern powder characterisation methods in product and process development of solid dosage forms
Authors:T. FreemanK. BrockbankB. Armstrong
Absract:The pharmaceutical industry still produces the vast majority of their products, from powdered ingredients, in the form of solid doses. Despite their ubiquity, powders are difficult materials to characterise and understand, as evidenced by the frequent problems encountered during manufacture. The reason for this is their complex rheological behaviour coupled with numerous environmental variations, such as humidity. Equally, the range of processes used to manipulate powders subject them to extremes of stress from high compaction loads seen in compactors to the dispersed state seen in fluidised bed dryers. Thus, it is evident that ensuring that the powders characteristics are compatible with the way they are to be processed is a clear prerequisite for today’s Quality by Design driven manufacturing. Modern, computer controlled instrumental techniques, including the dynamic, bulk and shear property measurements have enabled direct measurements of a powders response to aeration, consolidation and flow rate - all at low stresses - as well as quantifying shear and bulk properties (such as density, compressibility and permeability). In order to demonstrate how fully characterising a powder can be used in the design, operation and troubleshooting of processes, this paper will present examples of common pharmaceutical unit operations and the different powder characteristics that most influence the performance of each.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2011.12.014
Title:Crosslinked chitosan nanoparticle formulations for delivery from pressurized metered dose inhalers
Authors:K. SharmaS. SomavarapuA. ColombaniN. GovindK.M.G. Taylor
Absract:Crosslinked chitosan nanoparticles, prepared using ionic gelation, have been successfully formulated into pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) with potential for deep lung delivery of therapeutic agents. Nanoparticles were prepared from crosslinked chitosan alone and incorporating PEG 600, PEG 1000 and PEG 5000 for dispersion in aerosol propellant, hydrofuoroalkane (HFA) 227. Spherical, smooth-surfaced, cationic particles of mean size less than 230 nm were produced. Nanoparticles were positively charged and non-aggregated at the pH of the airways. Crosslinked chitosan-PEG 1000 nanoparticles demonstrated greatest dispersibility and physical stability in HFA-227, whereas other formulations readily either creamed or sedimented. Following actuation from pMDIs, the fine particle fraction (FPF) for crosslinked chitosan-PEG 1000 nanoparticles, determined using a next generation impactor, was 34.0 ± 1.4% with a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 4.92 ± 0.3 μm. The FPFs of crosslinked chitosan, crosslinked chitosan-PEG 600 and crosslinked chitosan-PEG 5000 nanoparticles were 5.7 ± 0.9%, 11.8 ± 2.7% and 17.0 ± 2.1%, respectively. These results indicate that crosslinked chitosan-PEG 1000-based nanoparticles are promising candidates for delivering therapeutic agents, particularly biopharmaceuticals, using pMDIs. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2010.06.003
Title:Aqueous re-dispersibility of spray-dried antibiotic-loaded polycaprolactone nanoparticle aggregates for inhaled anti-biofilm therapy
Authors:K. KhoW.S. CheowR.H. LieK. Hadinoto
Absract:Antibiotic-loaded nanoparticles have emerged as one of the most promising inhaled antibiotic formulations for treating bacterial biofilm infections in the lung. To effectively deliver the nanoparticles by inhalation, the nanoparticles are transformed into micro-scale dry-powder structures in the form of nanoparticle aggregates that can be easily aerosolized off the inhaler. Moreover, the nano-aggregates must readily reconstitute into the primary nanoparticles to be therapeutically effective upon their deposition in the lung. In the present work, respirable dry-powder aggregates of antibiotic-loaded polycaprolactone nanoparticles are produced by the spray-drying technique. The effects of the excipient formulation and drying temperature on the aqueous re-dispersibility, morphology, production yield, and flowability of the nano-aggregates are investigated. Three excipients commonly used in inhaled dosage formulation (i.e. mannitol, lactose, and leucine) and their combinations are examined. The results indicate that the nano-aggregate morphology is not greatly influenced by the excipient formulation, where low-density spherical nano-aggregates are consistently produced. The inclusion of hydrophobic leucine is mandatory to produce free-flowing particles, which however leads to decreased production yields. The aqueous re-dispersibility is strongly dependent on the excipient formulation, where only lactose-leucine formulations at particular nanoparticle to excipient concentration ratios are capable of producing re-dispersible nano-aggregates. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/s0034-7094(10)70041-6
Title:Intraoperative intravenous lidocaine
Authors:C.M. Barros De OliveiraA.M. IssyR.K. Sakata
Absract:Background and objectives: Most patients undergoing surgery experience moderate to severe pain, indicating the need to improve the anesthetic technique. Intravenous lidocaine has been widely used in the treatment of chronic pain. The objective of this report was to review the use of intravenous lidocaine for postoperative analgesia. Contents: The pharmacologic aspects and mechanism of action of lidocaine as well as clinical studies in which the authors used intraoperative lidocaine were reviewed. Conclusions: Intravenous lidocaine can promote analgesia in surgical procedures, representing another alternative for the treatment of acute pain. Controlled studies with different surgical interventions could bring more information on this modality of analgesia.

doi:10.1016/S0928-0987(02)00133-1
Title:Mechanisms for absorption enhancement of inhaled insulin by sodium taurocholate
Authors:F. JohanssonE. HjertbergS. EirefeltA. TrondeU. Hultkvist Bengtsson
Absract:The effects of sodium taurocholate (NaTC) on the absorption of inhaled insulin was investigated using both in vivo and in vitro experiments. The absolute bioavailability of insulin when given as a nebulized solution (0.6 mM) to anesthetized intubated beagle dogs was low (2.6±0.3%). However, when NaTC at different concentrations (2-32 mM) were included in the formulations the bioavailability increased and at 32 mM it was about nine times higher (23.2±4.4%) than for pure insulin. In a similar concentration interval (20-25 mM) NaTC decreased the transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) across Caco-2 cell monolayers leading to an increased permeability of insulin. At higher concentrations (above 30 mM) the viability of the Caco-2 cells decreased and the insulin permeability increased dramatically. Furthermore, we show that NaTC in the concentration range 2-15 mM gradually decreases the aggregation state of insulin, i.e., produces mono- or dimeric insulin from hexameric insulin. In conclusion, NaTC increases the bioavailability of nebulized insulin, increases the permeability of insulin across Caco-2 cell monolayers, and decreases the aggregation state of insulin at similar concentrations. We suggest that the main mechanisms behind the absorption enhancement of inhaled insulin by NaTC are the production of insulin monomers and an opening of tight junctions between adjacent airway epithelial cells. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2020-2540
Title:Chemoprevention of aerosolized Let-7b inmouse lung cancer model
Authors:Q. ZhangJ. PanY. WangM.S. MillerA. IzzottiM. You
Absract:The delivery of microRNA (miRNA) via inhalation is a potential strategy for lung cancer prevention in high riskindividuals such as current and former smokers. Previous studies have shown that intratracheal or intranasalexposure of genetically engineered mice to viral vectors expressing let-7 miRNA resulted in a reduced lung tumorburden. However, these studies were done in genetically engineered mouse models that developed highlyaggressive tumors more relevant for a treatment regimen. In this study, we investigated the efficacy of let-7b in lungcancer prevention. An aerosolized let-7b miRNA formulation was tested in the benzo(a)pyrene (B[a]P) mousemodel. The particle size of the let-7b miRNA aerosol has been systematically characterized as particles with sizesbetween 1.9 to 35 nm (average size of 29.0 nm). Following the aerosol formulation evaluation, the biodistribution of let-7b in the lung by tail vein injection and aerosolized delivery were compared. The distribution of the aerosolizedlet-7b produced higher levels of the miRNA in the lung compared with systematic delivery. The aerosol delivery of let-7b had no effect on animal body weight nor were there any other signs of toxicity. The development of anaerosolized let-7b formulation inhibited B[a]P -induced lung adenoma volume by 72% in A/J mice. Collectively,these findings show that aerosolized miRNA is a promising approach for lung cancer prevention.

doi:10.33892/aph.2019.89.43-62
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery: Role of antibiotic formulations for treatment of respiratory tract infections
Authors:I. CsókaK. KarimiM. MukhtarR. Ambrus
Absract:Respiratory infections cause an extensive health problem in the world. The common treatment for respiratory infections is the administration of antibiotics orally or parenterally in a high dose. Unfortunately; these therapies of high-dose antimicrobials have many disadvantages, such as severe side effects. Consequently, the development of an inhaled formulation provides the delivery of the therapeutic dose of the drug to the organ of interest without overt systemic effects. Novel technological advances have led to the development of inhaled antibiotics. Recent particle engineering techniques for dry powder inhalers (DPI) or mesh nebulizers have higher aerosoliza-tion efficiencies and promote the delivery of high-dose antibiotics to the lungs. However, advanced formulation strategies are in high demand for the development of new formulations for more types of antibiotics. Despite all the current research, patient compliance with pulmonary dosage forms remains to be very low because of the inappropriate administration techniques. Hence, this review focuses on three key aspects of the pulmonary dosage forms of antibiotics; the marketed products, the formulation approaches under research and innovative formulation strategies for achieving drug delivery through the respiratory tract.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.10.021
Title:Computational modelling and experimental validation of drug entrainment in a dry powder inhaler
Authors:T. KopschD. MurnaneD. Symons
Absract:In a passive dry powder inhaler (DPI) a patient inhales to entrain drug powder. The goal of this study is to demonstrate experimentally that an Eulerian-Eulerian (EE CFD) computational fluid dynamics (CFD) method can accurately predict the entrainment of the dry powder formulation in DPIs. A CFD method that makes accurate predictions of the entrainment process can be applied in DPI design and optimization processes. Three different DPI entrainment geometries were tested. For each geometry, a transparent entrainment module was prepared. In each experiment, the chosen entrainment module was first filled with lactose powder and attached to an inhalation simulator (a computer controlled pump). The entrainment process was recorded with a high-speed camera. The resulting video footage was analysed and compared with CFD predictions. The observed distribution of powder in the entrainment compartment and the measured rate of drug entrainment were in good agreement with CFD predictions. Through a process of experimental validation, this study established the first demonstration that two-dimensional EE CFD methodology provides robust and accurate predictions of aerosol generation from DPI entrainment chambers. The findings support the wider application of EE CFD for the design optimization of DPI devices.

doi:10.1208/s12249-016-0633-9
Title:Formulation and Characterization of Polysaccharide Microparticles for Pulmonary Delivery of Sodium Cromoglycate
Authors:L. GalloV. BucaláM.V. Ramírez-Rigo
Absract:Sodium cromoglycate (SC) is an antiasthmatic and antiallergenic drug commonly used for chronic inhalation therapy; however, many daily intakes are required due to the fast drug clearance from airways. For these reasons, SC polymeric particles for inhalatory administration with adequate aerosolization and mucoadhesive properties were designed to prolong the drug residence time in the site of action. Sodium carboxymethylcellulose (CMCNa), sodium hyaluronate, and sodium alginate were selected to co-process SC by spray drying. The influence of these polysaccharides on the spray drying process and powder quality was evaluated (among others, morphology, size, moisture content, hygroscopicity, flowability, densities, liquid sorption, and stability). In vitro aerosolization, drug release, and mucoadhesion performance were also studied. Particularly, a novel method to comparatively evaluate the interaction between formulations and mucin solution (mucoadhesion test) was proposed as a rapid methodology to measure adhesion properties of inhalable particles, being the results as indicative of clearance probability. Among all the studied formulations, the powder based on SC and CMCNa exhibited the best mucoadhesion and aerosolization performance, the highest process yield and adequate moisture content, hygroscopicity, and stability. SC-CMCNa formulation arose as a promising inhalatory system to reduce the daily intakes and to increase the patient compliance.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.02.031
Title:The relationship between drug concentration, mixing time, blending order and ternary dry powder inhalation performance
Authors:M.D. JonesJ.G.F. SantoB. YakubM. DennisonH. MasterG. Buckton
Absract:Some studies have shown that the mixing order of drug, fines and coarse carrier in a ternary dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation affects fine particle delivery; others have seen no difference. This was investigated by examining the influence of salbutamol sulphate concentration (0.5-4.5%@sup_beginw@sup_end/@sub_beginw@sub_end), mixing time and blending order (drug and lactose carrier first, then lactose fines; versus fines and carrier first, then drug) on formulation in vitro fine particle delivery. With 15min of mixing, there was no effect of drug concentration or blending order on fine particle fraction (FPF). With 30min of mixing, lower drug concentrations produced larger FPFs with the fines and carrier first blending order. Higher drug concentrations resulted in equal performance between the blending orders. With 60min of mixing, the drug and carrier first blending order resulted in larger a FPF at 0.5%@sup_beginw@sup_end/@sub_beginw@sub_end salbutamol sulphate. The previous conflicting studies used a mixing time of 30min; these results suggest that their conflicting results may have been due to the use of different drug concentrations. The complexity in the whole dataset suggests that blending order studies are of limited use for the investigation of the mechanism behind the effects of fines. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

pui:350207085
Title:Basics of compounding: Considerations for implementing United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding - Sterile preparations, part 4: Considerations in selection and use of disinfectants and antiseptics
Authors:L.V. Allen Jr.C.C. Okeke
Absract:United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈797〉 Pharmaceutical Compounding - Sterile Preparations pertains to all preadministration manipulations and procedures involved in preparation of sterile compounds for application, implantation, infusion, inhalation, injection, insertion, instillation, or irrigation, including preparation, storage, and transportation. The chapter does not pertain to actual clinical administration of compounded sterile preparations to patients. The intent of Chapter 〈797〉 is simply to prevent patient harm and fatalities that may result from nonsterility, excessive endotoxin load, large content errors in strength of correct ingredients, or the presence of incorrect ingredients. Because the achievement of sterility requires that facilities meet minimum cleanliness standards, that personnel be trained adequately and undergo periodic testing and training in sterilization techniques, and that appropriate principles and practices be applied to sustain solution stability, compliance with Chapter 〈797〉 should be the goal of any facility where sterile preparations are compounded. Many pharmacies have already achieved compliance with Chapter 〈797〉, and those that have already met the new standards seem to support them strongly. This particular article discusses the standards set forth in United States Pharmacopeia Chapter 〈1072〉, which is referenced in Chapter 〈797〉, for the selection and use of disinfectants and antiseptics in the compounding pharmacy.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2003.10.039
Title:Alternative sugars as potential carriers for dry powder inhalations
Authors:H. SteckelN. Bolzen
Absract:Most dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations rely on lactose monohydrate as a carrier in the drug powder blends. However, lactose cannot be used for compounds that interact with the reducing sugar function of the lactose, such as formoterol, budesonide or peptides and proteins. In this study, alternative carriers like mannitol, glucose, sorbitol, maltitol and xylitol have therefore been evaluated for their potential use in DPI formulations. Raw materials were characterised physico-chemically and blends with the model drug substance budesonide were tested with respect to the aerosolization behaviour of the powders. It was found out that similarly to the problems known for lactose monohydrate, such as supplier variability, variability between different qualities of one supplier, the same difficulties apply to the alternative carriers investigated. Different sources and qualities of mannitol led to significant differences in the fine particle fraction (FPF), varying from 15 to 50% for two different qualities of mannitol. Similar observations were made for the other carrier materials studied. Also, the influence of conditioning the raw material at different relative humidity was found to have substantial influence on the performance of drug/carrier blends which is characterised by a strong decrease in the FPF. In summary, mannitol showed potential as a drug carrier to be used in DPIs whereas the more hygroscopic sugars only showed poor dispersibility. © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1615/critrevtherdrugcarriersyst.v18.i4.20
Title:Immunological and toxicological implications of short-term studies in animals of pharmaceutical aerosol delivery to the lungs: Relevance to humans
Authors:A.J. HickeyL. Garcia-Contreras
Absract:The effects of xenobiotics on the lungs have been studied for many years. In the past 50 years, delivery of drugs to the lungs has been adopted to achieve local effects, specifically for the treatment of asthma. Recently, due to the proximity of the circulating blood supply and to their large surface area, the lungs have been proposed as the port of entry for drugs to obtain systemic effects, particularly for macromolecular compounds of biological origin. Numerous studies regarding drug formulation, delivery systems, and related pharmacokinetics have been reported; however, the concurrent effects of pulmonary delivery of drugs on the physiology of the lung has not been evaluated early in the development process. The prospect of using the lungs for the delivery of biological molecules such as proteins, peptides, and nucleic acids raises the question of the local toxicity of these compounds. Therefore, criteria must be established to study the initial impact of pulmonary drug delivery on the physiology of the lungs. This relates particularly to subtle local and systemic implications of those effects on the transport phenomena that may be contrasted with conventional toxicity studies focused on gross effects.

doi:10.1183/09031936.97.10081820
Title:Lung delivery of salbutamol by dry powder inhaler (Turbuhaler®) and small volume antistatic metal spacer (Airomir® CFC-free MDI plus NebuChamber®)
Authors:B.J. LipworthD.J. Clark
Absract:As a worldwide ban on the use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in inhaler devices approaches, considerable attention has been focused on the production of CFC-free delivery devices. The aim of our study was to compare the delivery of salbutamol by dry powder inhaler (DPI), Turbuhaler® and a CFC- free metered-dose inhaler (MDI), Airomir®, used with a novel small volume metal spacer (NebuChamber®). Ten healthy volunteers, mean (SEM) age 21 (0.7) yrs were studied in a randomized, single (investigator)-blind cross-over design. Single doses of 1,200 μg salbutamol, from Turbuhaler® DPI and Airomir® CFC-free MDI via a NebuChamber®, were given as 12 sequential 100 μg inhalations over 6 min. The lung delivery of salbutamol was assessed by measuring the plasma salbutamol profile over the first 20 rain after inhalation. Plasma salbutamol concentration was expressed as maximal (Cmax) and average (Cav) value. Significant differences (p<0.001) were found between the NebuChamber® (N) and the Turbuhaler® (T) for salbutamol Cmax and Cav. This amounted to a 1.89 fold difference (95% CI 1.56-2.22) between these devices for Cmax, and a 1.78 fold difference (95% CI 1.42-2.15) for Cav. We have demonstrated that, in vivo, salbutamol from a chlorofluorocarbon-free metered-dose inhaler given via a small volume metal spacer (NebuChamber®) produces significantly greater delivery than from an efficient dry powder inhaler (Turbuhaler®).

doi:10.4103/0250-474X.100240
Title:Inhalational system for etoposide liposomes: Formulation development and in vitro deposition
Authors:J. ParmarD. SinghA. LohadeD. HegdeP. SoniA. SamadM. Menon
Absract:Etoposide is a semisynthetic compound, widely used in treatment of non small cell lung cancer. However, frequent dosing and adverse effects remain a major concern in the use of etoposide. Liposomal systems for pulmonary drug delivery have been particularly attractive because of their compatibility with lung surfactant components. In the present investigation, pulmonary liposomal delivery system of etoposide was prepared by film hydration method. Various parameters were optimized with respect to entrapment efficiency as well as particle size of etoposide liposomes. For better shelf life of etoposide liposomes, freeze drying using trehalose as cryoprotectant was carried out. The liposomes were characterized for entrapment efficiency, particle size, surface topography, and in vitro drug release was carried out in simulated lung fluid at 37 at pH 7.4. The respirable or fine particle fraction was determined by using twin stage impinger. The stability study of freeze dried as well as aqueous liposomal systems was carried out at 2-8 and at ambient temperature (284 ). The freeze dried liposomes showed better fine particle fraction and drug content over the period of six months at ambient as well as at 2-8 storage condition compared to aqueous dispersion of liposomes.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2004.02.004
Title:Design, synthesis, and computational affinity prediction of ester soft drugs as inhibitors of dihydrofolate reductase from Pneumocystis carinii
Authors:M. Graffner-NordbergK. KolmodinJ. ÅqvistS.F. QueenerA. Hallberg
Absract:A series of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) inhibitors, where the methylenamino-bridge of non-classical inhibitors was replaced with an ester function, have been prepared as potential soft drugs intended for inhalation against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP). Several of the new ester-based inhibitors that should serve as good substrates for the ubiquitous esterases and possibly constitute safer alternatives to metabolically stable DHFR inhibitors administered orally, were found to be potent inhibitors of P. carinii DHFR (pcDHFR). Although the objectives of the present program is to achieve a favorable toxicity profile by applying the soft drug concept, a high preference for inhibition of the fungal DHFR versus the mammalian DHFR is still desirable to suppress host toxicity at the site of administration. Compounds with a slight preference for the fungal enzyme were identified. The selection of the target compounds for synthesis was partly guided by an automated docking and scoring procedure as well as molecular dynamics simulations. The modest selectivity of the synthesized inhibitors was reasonably well predicted, although a correct ranking of the relative affinities was not successful in all cases. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(97)00322-0
Title:Experimental pulmonary delivery of cyclosporin A by liposome aerosol
Authors:J.C. WaldrepJ. ArppeK.A. JansaM. Vidgren
Absract:The utilization of CsA-liposome for aerosol delivery by jet nebulizers has potential advantages for clinical development including: aqueous compatibility, sustained pulmonary release to maintain therapeutic drug levels and facilitated delivery to alveolar macrophages and pulmonary lymphocytes. Inhalation of cyclosporin A (CsA)-dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC) liposome aerosols will theoretically result in localized and sustained delivery of therapeutic CsA concentrations within the lung as an alternative to local immunotherapy for pulmonary diseases. In the lung, targeted delivery of therapeutic CsA concentrations would require lower dosages than via conventional intravenous or oral routes of administration. Potential benefits from targeted lung delivery could include reduced systemic toxicity and prolonged immunosuppressive activity. Aerosol delivery systems have been developed to deposit drugs directly onto pulmonary surfaces at the sites of disease within the lung. A novel HPLC method for tissue analysis of CsA-liposomes is developed and utilized with a solid-phase extraction method to measure CsA recovered from Balb/c mouse lung tissues. A concentrated formulation containing 5 mg CsA-37.5 mg DLPC/ml was nebulized with an Aerotech II nebulizer generating an aerosol particle size distribution (mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD)) of 1.7 μm and geometric standard deviation (GSD) of 2.0. After a 15-min aerosol exposure, little of no CsA was detected in the blood, liver, kidney or spleen. The lung contained the highest organ CsA levels with high immunosuppressive activity demonstrating effective pulmonary targeting of the CsA-DLPC liposome aerosol. The results of this system will be utilized as the experimental basis for future pharmacokinetic, toxicological, immunosuppression and other biological studies.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.10.039
Title:Investigating cascade impactor performance using a modified 3D printed induction port
Authors:K. BerkenfeldM. BernauerJ.T. McConvilleA. Lamprecht
Absract:Based on a computer tomographic scan of a human trachea, a modified induction port (mIP), for use with the Next Generation Cascade Impactor, was manufactured using 3D printing technology. Standard United States Pharmacopoeia IP (USPIP) was compared to the mIP and a 3D printed version of the USPIP (USP3DIP) by analyzing different types of commercial salbutamol formulations for inhalation. Increased retention of particles in the mIP was found analyzing a pMDI formulation, leading to a decrease in the FPF from 28.8 ± 2.0% to 14.2 ± 1.2%, which correlates better to in vivo deposition data from literature. Increased deposition was found to be based on geometrical factors only. The impact of surface related effects was investigated by (a) comparing results obtained with the USPIP and USP3DIP (all formulations) and (b) generating another model IP (USP3DSEIP) with a surface area equivalent to the mIP but maintaining the geometry of the USPIP (pMDI only). USPIP, USP3DIP, and USP3DSEIP were found to perform equivalently. The impact of different geometries on airflow velocities in the USPIP and mIP was assessed using a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model. Conclusively, this study shows that replacing the USP IP by the mIP can provide additional information in formulation assessment and in in vitro/in vivo correlation, when applied on pMDI formulations.

pui:364709072
Title:Formulation and evaluation of spray-dried combination respirable powder based on selection of excipients for pulmonary delivery: Comparison between lactose and mannitol
Authors:R.R. ShahM.S. KondawarS.S. ShindeN.D. Shah
Absract:The aim of this study was to examine the influence of excipients on physical characteristics of combination dry powder inhaler formulation which contains salmeterol xinafoate (SX) and fluticasone propionate (FP). The formulation was prepared by Spray drying of micropariculate suspensions. The excipients used were α-lactose monohydrate and D-mannitol. Poloxamer 188 was used as a stabilizer. The powders generated were of a suitable size for inhalation with satisfactory yield. It was found that in optimum concentration with poloxamer 188; lactose and mannitol gave increased spray drying thermal efficiency. FTIR study showed the close agreement among the spectra of all spray dried formulations and APIs. Effect of excipients was further investigated by different physical characters of spray-dried formulations. The formulation was evaluated for in vitro drug release study by the modified USP II dissolution apparatus. Dissolution study gave immediate drug release profiles. The stability study indicated that all the formulations were quite stable at accelerated storage conditions. The results obtained from all observations indicate that in presence of poloxamer 188; mannitol was found to be superior over the lactose as an excipient; for the combination dry powder inhaler formulation containing salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate. © RJPT All right reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2008.07.001
Title:Comparative permeability and diffusion kinetics of cyclosporine A liposomes and propylene glycol solution from human lung tissue into human blood ex vivo
Authors:B. TrammerA. AmannE. Haltner-UkomaduS. TillmannsM. KellerP. Högger
Absract:Aerolized cyclosporine A (CsA) has been successfully used for prevention of organ rejection in lung transplant recipients. Various formulations of CsA are available and so far no direct comparison of their pharmacokinetics has been performed. Since clinical studies are elaborate, we sought a way to predict the kinetic behaviour of a propylene glycol solution of CsA (CsA-PG) and a liposomal formulation (L-CsA). The permeability across the human bronchial cell line Calu-3 revealed low permeability for CsA with the apparent permeability for CsA-PG being twice as high as for L-CsA. Employing a previously described dialysis model, the diffusion of CsA from human lung tissue into human blood was determined ex vivo. Consistent with the cell culture model results, we observed that the degree and rate of drug transfer into human blood was more pronounced for CsA-PG than for L-CsA with the area under the curve (AUC) of CsA-PG being about 1.6 times higher than for the L-CsA formulation. The diffusion rate was more than 50% higher from CsA-PG than from the liposomes. To conclude, both model systems consistently revealed that L-CsA displayed clearly a prolonged release effect and favourable longer tissue retention than CsA-PG. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0264-410X(99)00054-7
Title:Comparison of the quality of protection elicited by toxoid and peptide liposomal vaccine formulations against ricin as assessed by markers of inflammation
Authors:G.D. GriffithsG.J. PhillipsS.C. Bailey
Absract:Ricin is a very toxic substance which inhibits protein synthesis and produces severe tissue damage and inflammation. It is very potent when inhaled as an aerosol and protection has been examined in a series of studies using vaccine candidates including a formaldehyde inactivated ricin toxoid and the A chain of ricin, a polypeptide equivalent to half of the toxin molecule. Initially, subcutaneous injections of both compounds were found to protect against inhaled ricin but not without some subsequent adverse signs. Intra-pulmonary vaccination using liposomal formulations of these compounds was investigated with a view to improving lung condition following challenge. Using the humoral and local pulmonary immune responses as indices of vaccine performance, no significant difference between toxoid or peptide vaccines was found. In the third and current study, the quality of lung protection by vaccines was assessed using markers of inflammation. Thus, the profiles of inflammatory cell and protein influx into the lung were determined following intratracheal (i.t.) challenge with ricin of rats treated with liposomal vaccine formulations. Results showed that liposomal ricin toxoid offered a better quality of protection with a significantly lower influx of polymorphonuclear leucocytes (neutrophils) and little pulmonary oedema compared with the A chain/liposome formulation. Further, there was no significant difference between the quality of protection offered by the A chain when administered subcutaneously or locally into the lung by i.t. instillation. Liposomal ricin toxoid is a good candidate vaccine and optimised pulmonary delivery by inhalation should be further examined.

doi:10.1177/1753465813487412
Title:Efficacy of inhaled ciprofloxacin in the management of non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis
Authors:J.A. JustoL.H. DanzigerM.H. Gotfried
Absract:Non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis (NCFBE), a historically under-recognized chronic respiratory condition, is a significant diagnosis currently experiencing a resurgence of interest in its clinical management. Ciprofloxacin is part of the current armamentarium used in the treatment of the recurrent respiratory tract infections seen in NCFBE. Inhaled ciprofloxacin, a novel method of drug delivery for the fluoroquinolone class, is being actively investigated. The inhaled formulation is designed to enhance drug delivery to the site of infection in the lung while minimizing the risk of systemic toxicity. This review summarizes the pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of ciprofloxacin and the rationale for the development of an inhaled formulation for NCFBE. Preclinical and clinical data regarding current development of inhaled ciprofloxacin formulations is also evaluated. Lastly, the anticipated role of inhaled ciprofloxacin in the management of NCFBE is discussed, including future considerations and potential limitations of therapy. © The Author(s), 2013.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2010.02.007
Title:The use of sodium carboxymethylcellulose in the preparation of spray-dried proteins for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:H.-Y. LiX. SongP.C. Seville
Absract:The use of sodium carboxymethylcellulose (NaCMC) as a spray-drying excipient in the preparation of inhalable formulations of proteins was investigated, using alkaline phosphatase as a model functional protein. Two spray-dried powders were investigated: a control powder comprising 100% (w/w) alkaline phosphatase and a test powder comprising 67% (w/w) NaCMC and 33% (w/w) alkaline phosphatase. Following physicochemical characterisation, the powders were prepared as both dry powder inhaler (DPI) and pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) formulations. The aerosolisation performance of the formulations was assessed using a Multi-Stage Liquid Impinger, both immediately after preparation and over a 16-week storage period. Formulating the control powder as a DPI resulted in a poor fine particle fraction (FPF: 10%), whereas the FPF of the NaCMC-modified DPI formulation was significantly greater (47%). When the powders were formulated as pMDI systems, the control and NaCMC-modified powders demonstrated FPFs of 52% and 55%, respectively. Following storage, reduced FPF was observed for all formulations except the NaCMC-modified pMDI system; the performance of this formulation following storage was statistically equivalent to that immediately following preparation. Co-spray-drying proteins and peptides with NaCMC may therefore offer an alternative method for the preparation of stable and respirable pMDI formulations for pulmonary delivery. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1185/030079906X132703
Title:Inhaled insulins: The present and future of diabetes therapy
Authors:S. Del Prato
Absract:It is well established that intensive insulin regimens reduce the risk of diabetes-related complications. However, multiple daily injections have an important impact on treatment burden and compliance. Various non-invasive formulations of insulin have been researched and the first inhaled insulin formulation, Exubera* (insulin human [rDNA origin] Inhalation Powder), was approved in the United States and European Union for the treatment of adults with type 1 or type 2 diabetes in January 2006. Comprehensive studies with Exubera have shown comparable efficacy to regular subcutaneous mealtime insulin in type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and superior efficacy to oral antidiabetic agents (OAs) in patients with type 2 diabetes with glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA @sub_begin1c@sub_end) > 8%. Furthermore, Exubera shows a good safety profile and improved patient satisfaction versus comparators. The key limitation of this review is that that few publications are available for other inhaled insulin formulations. Although their data also suggest favorable efficacy and safety profiles, it is currently unknown whether the key findings are specific to one formulation or a class effect. Therefore, more detailed investigations are expected in the future. In the meantime, we could speculate that inhaled insulins may improve patient acceptance of insulin-based therapeutic regimens, and thereby improve glycemic control and long-term diabetic outcomes. © 2006 Librapharm Limited.

doi:10.1111/j.1365-2044.1985.tb10547.x
Title:Comparison of propofol and thiopentone for induction of anaesthesia in premedicated patients
Authors:G. RollyL. Versichelen
Absract:Thirty premedicated ASA I or II patients scheduled for minor gynaecological surgery, were randomly allocated to receive either 1.5 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg propofol of the new emulsion formulation, or 4 mg/kg thiopentone, given over 20 seconds. Anaesthesia was successfully induced in all 30 patients. The mean (SEM) induction times were for propofol 1.5 mg/kg 33.3(3.2) seconds, for 2 mg/kg 30.5(2.7) seconds and for thiopentone 34.6(2.7) seconds. The incidence of apnoea greater than 10 seconds, was respectively 60, 80 and 80%, and the mean duration of apnoea 30.8(5.3), 37.1(5.0) and 23.7(5.0) seconds. The mean systolic blood pressure decreased after propofol 1.5 mg/kg by 16.0 mmHg, after 2 mg/kg by 18.6 mmHg, and increased after thiopentone by 1 mmHg, 2 minutes after injection. Heart rate increased significantly 2 minutes after thiopentone by an average of 15.1 beats/minute, but not after propofol. Pain was not reported during or after the injection. No major adverse reactions occurred at induction or during maintenance of anaesthesia with an inhalation agent. One patient who received 2 mg/kg propofol and isoflurane vomited for 24 hours. The recovery of anaesthesia after propofol induction, was quicker than after thiopentone.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.05.045
Title:Development of a spray-drying method for the formulation of respirable microparticles containing ofloxacin-palladium complex
Authors:F. PalazzoS. GiovagnoliA. SchoubbenP. BlasiC. RossiM. Ricci
Absract:The purpose of this study was to produce low-releasing spray-dried polymeric microparticles (MP) useful to target alveolar macrophages in tuberculosis (TB) inhalation therapy. Ofloxacin (Ofx) was encapsulated as ofloxacin-palladium (Ofx-Pd) complex into poly dl-lactide (PLA) MP by spray-drying. Ofx-Pd was prepared according to a method previously reported. A D-optimal design was employed to optimize drug content (DC), aerodynamic diameter (d@sub_beginae@sub_end) and span. d@sub_beginae@sub_end was calculated coupling tap-density to particle size analysis. The MP were characterized by SEM, UV spectrophotometry, and DSC. In vitro drug release was performed in comparison to Ofx loaded PLA MP. The Ofx-Pd complex formed spontaneously with a 1:1 stoichiometry. Inlet temperature, drug loading and polymer concentration resulted the most influential. Optimal MP had span of 0.9, a round shape, d @sub_beginae@sub_end of 2.5 μm, and DC of 30% (w/w). DSC and SEM analyses correlated with particle size. The optimized MP formulation showed a very low release at pH 7.4 compared to spray-dried Ofx loaded MP, the release increased slightly at lower pHs. Potentially inhalable MP were obtained by an optimized spray-drying process. The very low initial drug release at physiologic pH could be useful to target alveolar macrophages and to avoid systemic exposure. © 2012 Elsevier B.V.

pui:364220086
Title:Quality by design: Concept for the proof-of-principle testing regarding automated microdosing
Authors:E. Sternberger-RützelW. RunftM. BeckE. WeberM. KleinerB. GumpingerI. Mul̈ler
Absract:More and more capsules have to be filled with a low volume of highly active pharmaceutical ingredients, which can cause difficulties in fulfilling the given release specifications, such as content uniformity. Quality by Design (QbD) was used in order to define a process window for dosing low quantities of a typical inhalation product in order to launch new high-speed microdosing equipment for the process of microdosing powders into capsules. QbD is a well-known tool used by the pharmaceutical industry for formulation or process optimization as a scientific, risk-based, holistic, systematic, and proactive approach to product testing. The test plan was created by statistical software. The described QbD trials were then tested and analyzed according to different parameters such as quality of lactose, fill volume, applied vacuum, different vacuum dosing wheels, and fill amounts. The results were examined by macroscopic evaluation, fill weight, particle size distribution, rheological powder properties and their statistical analysis. The analysis of variance investigated the main effects and interactions that influence the fill weight and particle size distribution. It was the aim of this paper to gain results on the influence of equipment and process parameters on fill weight and particle size distribution as insight for further similar projects. © ECV • Editio Cantor Verlag.

doi:10.1002/jps.21154
Title:Combination particles containing salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate: Formulation and aerodynamic assessment
Authors:R. WestmeierH. Steckel
Absract:A precipitation process is used to produce combined particles consisting of two antiasthmatic drugs: salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate. To control the crystallisation of these particles, a micromixer is used to mix solvent and antisolvent flow. To produce particles in the respirable range, crystal growth inhibitors are added to the antisolvent flow. The obtained suspension is spray-dried afterwards to get a dry powder which can be further processed into inhalation drug products. It is found that a combination of polysorbate 80 and hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (HPMC) represents the best excipient combination. It is supposed that the smaller molecule polysorbate rapidly stabilises the particle surface and with this inhibits crystal growth, whereas HPMC is observed to produce spherical particles during the spray-drying process acting as lubricant and dispersion-modifier. The processed particles show a needlelike habit and, therefore, tend to form aggregates. When dispersed from an inhaler device, they are only moderately disaggregated. The deposition of the single drugs salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate on the stages of the NGI shows a very uniform distribution, indicating that both drugs are evenly dispensed, with an FPF of about 22% for the combined particles which corresponds to the deposition of the marketed product. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/S0168-3659(03)00263-3
Title:Sustained release of insulin from sodium hyaluronate based dry powder formulations after pulmonary delivery to beagle dogs
Authors:K. SurendrakumarG.P. MartynE.C.M. HodgersM. JansenJ.A. Blair
Absract:Hyaluronic acid (HA) and recombinant human insulin were co-spray dried to form a dry powder suitable for inhalation (Mass Median Aerodynamic Diameter, MMAD=1 to 4 μm). Insulin systemic levels and corresponding glucose levels were monitored following administration of the microparticles to the lungs of male Beagle dogs. Release kinetics were modified by addition of excess zinc ions (Zn@sup_begin2+@sup_end) or hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC). HA formulations containing insulin (10%w/w) were found to extend the mean residence time (MRT) and terminal half-life (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end) when compared to spray dried pure insulin. Addition of Zn@sup_begin2+@sup_end also improved MRT (>9 fold), AUC/dose (2.5 fold) and T@sub_beginmax@sub_end (by a factor of 3) when compared to spray dried pure insulin. Addition of HPC improved MRT (>7 fold), AUC/dose (5 fold) and T@sub_beginmax@sub_end (by a factor of 3) when compared to spray dried pure insulin. Our results demonstrate the potential of HA-based dry powder drug delivery systems in the pulmonary controlled release of insulin. © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:24058061
Title:Administration as hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin complexes does not slow rates of pulmonary drug absorption in rat
Authors:D.A. WallJ. MarcelloD. PierdomenicoA. Farid
Absract:Complexation with hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrins was investigated as an approach to slow rates of drug transport across pulmonary epithelium, with the goal of achieving longer duration of pharmacologic activity after inhalation delivery. Rolipram and testosterone were used as test compounds since the stability constants for hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin association are 260 and approximately 12,000 M@sup_begin-1@sup_end respectively. Alveolar to pleural transport of 10 μM rolipram across Xenopus lung in vitro was very rapid (2.9%/h·cm@sup_begin2@sup_end), and was reduced to half this rate by complexation with 3.9 mM hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin. As expected from the in vitro results, 10 μM rolipram given to rats by intratracheal instillation was lost from the lung with a t( 1/2 ) of <1 min. However, association with 3.9 mM hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin had no effect on rate of loss from rat lung tissue. Testosterone was also examined to determine whether the lack of effect in vivo was due to low binding affinity of rolipram to hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrins. In vitro transport was reduced 7X by hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin association of 10 μM testosterone (0.56%/h·cm@sup_begin2@sup_end without versus 0.08%/h·cm@sup_begin2@sup_end with 3.9 mM hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin). Loss from rat lung occurred with a t( 1/2 ) ~2 min, and was unaffected by hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrin complexation. Therefore, even a compound which associates strongly with hydroxypropyl β-cyclodextrins does not show reduced rates of pulmonary absorption after administration in vivo.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120293
Title:Delivery of beclomethasone dipropionate nanosuspensions with an electronic cigarette
Authors:L. CasulaC. SinicoD. ValentiE. PiniR. PiredduM. SchlichF. LaiA. Maria Fadda
Absract:The aim of this work was to ascertain the ability of electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS) to deliver drug nanocrystals through the produced aerosol. A nanocrystal nanosuspension of beclomethasone dipropionate, a synthetic chlorinated corticosteroid diester commonly used by inhalation in the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was prepared with a wet media milling technique using Poloxamer 188 as stabilizer. The obtained nanosuspension was thoroughly characterized by different techniques: transmission electron microscopy, photon correlation spectroscopy, X-ray powder diffractometry and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The nanosuspension was then loaded in the cartomizer of the electronic cigarette and the produced aerosol was collected and analysed, confirming the presence of drug nanocrystals. The results of this study suggested the possible alternative use of ENDS as medical device for the delivery of poorly soluble drugs.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2019.11.029
Title:Lecithin-based modified soft agglomerate composite microparticles for inhalable montelukast: Development, tolerability and pharmacodynamic activity
Authors:R. Abdel-GawadR. OsmanG.A.S. AwadN. Mortada
Absract:In this work, montelukast (MTK) was incorporated in inhalable soft agglomerates (SA) exhibiting inherent characteristics for deep lung deposition while expressing good flowability and enhanced shelf-life stability. Mannitol and ovalbumin were used as particle shapers and lecithin as binder during microparticles (MPs) preparation by spray drying. The spontaneously agglomerated MPs with an adhesive surface were designed to deagglomerate under the effect of aerosolization with selected dry powder inhaler device, achieving satisfactory lung deposition. A pharmacodynamic study was also undertaken to evaluate MTK-SA effectiveness in asthmatic rats. Optimized SA showed agglomerated small MPs capable of dispersing into individual particles under pressures exceeding 1Bar. They exhibited high respirable fraction of >54% and were able to release MTK in <15 min. MTK-SA, delivered by pulmonary insufflation, was able to equally reduce the inflammatory response in asthmatic rats at a ten fold lower dose compared to oral tablet.

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2018.PA1995
Title:Personalized treatment through an inhaler device, adjustable to patient's respiratory profile
Authors:P. ZarogoulidisS. RozouK. PorpodisK. DomvriN. MichailidisS. PetanidisE. KioseoglouD. PsallaK. Zarogoulidis
Absract:Aim: Tailor treatment of COPD patients (pts) through a dry powder inhaler (DPI) with adjustable resistances Introduction: Drug delivery and lung intrinsic deposition from a DPI are influenced by the inspiratory effort produced by the patient the resistance of the inhaler and by the formulation characteristics. COPD usually associated with a progressive airflow limitation and often is punctuated by episodes of exacerbations. It is essential to ensure that inhalation strength will adequately aerosolize a given formulation. Pandora I is a new DPI with the possibility to regulate with 4 (R1, R2, R3, R4) different resistances in order to achieve tailor treatment. Methods: An Andersen Cascade Impactor was used to measure the pressure drop/flow rate of Pandora I resistances. The relationship between resistances for Pandora I, and Breezhaler device (Novartis) and the aerodynamic particle size distribution for two strenghts of Fluticasone Propionate (1000/500 mcg) and one strength of Tiotropium Bromide (18mcg) distribution appear on the table. Sample deposits from each stage of the ACI analyzed by HPL Chromatography. View inline OPD:Oropharynx Deposition,FPF:Fine Particle Fraction Conclusion: Prospective studies are required to evaluate the possible superiority of Pandora DPI in limitation of symptoms and number of annual exacerbations in COPD pts.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.10.003
Title:Protein stability in pulmonary drug delivery via nebulization
Authors:S.P. HertelG. WinterW. Friess
Absract:Protein inhalation is a delivery route which offers high potential for direct local lung application of proteins. Liquid formulations are usually available in early stages of biopharmaceutical development and nebulizers are the device of choice for atomization avoiding additional process steps like drying and enabling fast progression to clinical trials. While some proteins were proven to remain stable throughout aerosolization e.g. DNase, many biopharmaceuticals are more susceptible towards the stresses encountered during nebulization. The main reason for protein instability is unfolding and aggregation at the air-liquid interface, a problem which is of particular challenge in the case of ultrasound and jet nebulizers due to recirculation of much of the generated droplets. Surfactants are an important formulation component to protect the sensitive biomolecules. A second important challenge is warming of ultrasound and vibrating mesh devices, which can be overcome by overfilling, precooled solutions or cooling of the reservoir. Ultimately, formulation development has to go hand in hand with device evaluation.

doi:10.3389/fcimb.2014.00079
Title:The potential of liposome-encapsulated ciprofloxacin as a tularemia therapy
Authors:K.A. HamblinJ.P. WongJ.D. BlanchardH.S. Atkins
Absract:Liposome-encapsulation has been suggested as method to improve the efficacy of ciprofloxacin against the intracellular pathogen, Francisella tularensis. Early work with a prototype formulation, evaluated for use against the F. tularensis live vaccine strain, showed that a single dose of liposomal ciprofloxacin given by the intranasal or inhalational route could provide protection in a mouse model of pneumonic tularemia. Liposomal ciprofloxacin offered better protection than ciprofloxacin given by the same routes. Liposomal ciprofloxacin has been further developed by Aradigm Corporation for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections in patients with cystic fibrosis and non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis. This advanced development formulation is safe, effective and well tolerated in human clinical trials. Further evaluation of the advanced liposomal ciprofloxacin formulation against the highly virulent F. tularensis Schu S4 strain has shown that aerosolized CFI (Ciprofloxacin encapsulated in liposomes for inhalation) provides significantly better protection than oral ciprofloxacin. Thus, liposomal ciprofloxacin is a promising treatment for tularemia and further research with the aim of enabling licensure under the animal rule is warranted.

doi:10.1002/jps.21500
Title:Influence of storage relative humidity on the dispersion of salmeterol xinafoate powders for inhalation
Authors:S. DasI. LarsonP. YoungP. Stewart
Absract:The in vitro dispersion of salmeterol xinafoate (SX) alone and four SX (2.5%)-coarse lactose (CL) mixtures containing 0%, 5%, 10% and 20% micronised lactose (ML) was monitored during 18-month storage at 33%, 55% and 75% relative humidity (RH) using a twin stage impinger. The surface moisture was monitored over 2 months by thermo gravimetric analysis. The morphology was determined by scanning electron microscopy. An aerosizer was used to compare the agglomerate strengths of formulations before and after storage at 75% RH. Upon storage, no significant difference occurred in fine particle fraction (FPF) of any formulation at 33% and 55% RH. Within 8 weeks, the FPF of mixture containing 20% ML (M20F) significantly decreased from 11.3% to 7.7% at 75% RH (p = 0.008) and to 4.9% at 95% RH (p = 0.001). The calculated capillary forces were greater for ML-ML contact than other particle interactions and the propensity of ML-ML contacts was higher in M20F. The agglomerate strength of M20F significantly increased after storage. The study concluded that the critical factors for decreased dispersion of SX formulations were RH of 75% or greater and the presence of high concentrations of ML due to capillary forces and/or solid bridge formation of ML leading to increased agglomerate strength. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2005.02.012
Title:Factors guiding the choice of delivery device for inhaled corticosteroids in the long-term management of stable asthma and COPD: Focus on budesonide
Authors:L. ThorssonD. Geller
Absract:Inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) have become the mainstay of chronic controller therapy to treat airways inflammation in asthma and to reduce exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. An array of ICSs are now available that are aerosolized by a range of delivery systems. Such devices include pressurized (or propellant) metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs), pMDIs plus valved holding chambers or spacers, breath-actuated inhalers, and nebulizers. More recently, dry-powder inhalers (DPIs) were developed to help overcome problems of hand-breath coordination associated with pMDIs. The clinical benefit of ICSs therapy is determined by a complex interplay between the nature and severity of the disease, the type of drug and its formulation, and characteristics of the delivery device together with the patient's ability to use the device correctly. The ICSs budesonide is available by pMDI, DPI, and nebulizer-allowing the physician to select the best device for each individual patient. Indeed, the availability of budesonide in three different delivery systems allows versatility for the prescribing physician and provides continuity of drug therapy for younger patients who may remain on the same ICSs as they mature. © 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2002.1362
Title:Delivery of salbutamol and of budesonide from a novel multi-dose inhaler Airmax™
Authors:X.-M. ZengD. O'LearyM. PhelanS. JonesJ. Colledge
Absract:A novel multi-dose inhaler has been developed to closely approach the characteristics of an "ideal" inhaler. The new device, Airmax™, uses proprietary technologies known as the X-ACT™ system to provide accurate and consistent dosing and excellent lung deposition-even at low inspiratory flow rates-combined with ease of use by the patient. Dose delivery was close to label claim, with relative standard deviation of typically around 5% for through-life emitted mass and around 10% for dose per actuation. At a flow rate (60-70 1/min), which corresponds to 4 kPa pressure drop across the device, the mean fine particle (<5 μm) dose (FPD) from 100, 200 and 400 μg strength budesonide Airmax™ was around 46, 98 and 244 μg, respectively. The mean FPD from 100 μg strength salbutamol Airmax™ was approximately 50 μg at the same flow rate. At 30 1/min, the delivered dose from Airmax™ is over 85% label claim with fine particle fraction of over 35%. Performance was unaffected by shaking or orientation, provided the device was not used completely upside down, and priming was not required. There was no change in dose content uniformity and aerodynamic particle-size distribution after the devices have been stored unwrapped at 30°C/60% RH upto 24 months. Airmax is robust, portable and intuitive to use. © 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.

doi:10.1211/0022357011777774
Title:Spray-dried insulin particles retain biological activity in rapid in-vitro assay
Authors:N. PatelB.L. CraddockJ.N. StaniforthM.J. TobynM.J. Welham
Absract:The purpose of this study was to rapidly determine, without the use of extensive animal studies, whether biological activity is retained after spray drying insulin with two excipients, lactose and xanthan gum. This was achieved by the detection of protein kinase B (PKB), which is activated by phosphorylation in response to insulin binding to cellular receptors. A myeloid cell line was cultured and stimulated with the reconstituted insulin powders. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) was then utilised to allow in-vitro detection of phosphorylated PKB using an anti-phospho-PKB antibody. A single band specific to phosphorylated PKB was found on the Western blots, indicating that the active conformation of insulin was retained when spray dried in combination with lactose and with xanthan gum over the spray-drying inlet temperature range of 110-170°C. Evidence of inactivation/denaturation was observed when insulin was spray dried at an inlet temperature of 200°C. The assay may be of use as a more rapid and economic means to screen insulin formulations for inhalation and other purposes as opposed to conventional monitoring of blood glucose levels in animals.

doi:10.1016/S0011-393X(99)90001-2
Title:Double-blind, placebo-controlled study of single doses of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) and CFC-free cromolyn sodium for exercise-induced bronchoconstriction
Authors:W. Storms
Absract:The objective of this study was to compare the protective effects of a single dose of either cromolyn sodium containing chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) as a propellant or CFC-free cromolyn sodium containing hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) as a propellant with those of placebo. Seventeen patients with documented exercise-induced bronchoconstriction received a single dose of each of the 2 formulations and placebo with washout periods between phases in a randomized, double-blind, 3-way crossover study. Exercise challenge was performed using a cycloergometer to achieve ≥70% of the predicted maximum heart rate. The highest of 3 pre-exercise measurements of forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) was recorded for analysis. Postexercise FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was measured at 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 minutes after completion of the challenge. The mean maximum percent decrease in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end after exercise and the percent protection index were calculated for each treatment. The mean maximum percent decrease in postexercise FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was significantly lower (P < 0.001) in both the CFC and HFA cromolyn sodium groups than in the placebo group (9.9%, 11.7%, and 24.9%, respectively). No significant difference in the maximum percent decrease in postexercise FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was noted between the active treatments. The mean percent protection index was 58.7% and 58.0% for the CFC and HFA formulations, respectively. Results of this study suggest that HFA-and CFC-containing cromolyn sodium inhalation aerosols are equivalent in the prevention of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.

doi:10.1023/A:1018828425184
Title:Protein inhalation powders: Spray drying vs spray freeze drying
Authors:Y.-F. MaaP.-A. NguyenT. SweeneyS.J. ShireC. Hsu
Absract:Purpose. To develop a new technique, spray freeze drying, for preparing protein aerosol powders. Also, to compare the spray freeze-dried powders with spray-dried powders in terms of physical properties and aerosol performance. Methods. Protein powders were characterized using particle size analysis, thermogravimetric analysis, scanning electron microscopy, X-ray powder diffractometry, and specific surface area measurement. Aerosol performance of the powders was evaluated after blending with lactose carriers using a multi- stage liquid impinger or an Anderson cascade impactor. Two recombinant therapeutic proteins currently used for treating respiratory tract-related diseases, deoxyribonuclase (rhDNase) and anti-IgE monoclonal antibody (anti- IgE MAb), were employed and formulated with different carbohydrate excipients. Results. Through the same atomization but the different drying process, spray drying (SD) produced small (~3 μm), dense particles, but SFD resulted in large (~8-10 μm), porous particles. The fine particle fraction (FPF) of the spray freeze-dried powder was significantly better than that of the spray-dried powder, attributed to better aerodynamic properties. Powders collected from different stages of the cascade impactor were characterized, which confirmed the concept of aerodynamic particle size. Protein formulation played a major role in affecting the powder's aerosol performance, especially for the carbohydrate excipient of a high crystallization tendency. Conclusions. Spray freeze drying, as opposed to spray drying, produced protein particles with light and porous characteristics, which offered powders with superior aerosol performance due to favorable aerodynamic properties.

pui:25227899
Title:Clinical evaluation of CFC-free metered dose inhalers
Authors:M. Jenkins
Absract:Current metered dose inhalers (MDIs) contain chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellants. A new propellant HFA134a, with no effect on ozone, may be a suitable alternative. Four asthma medications, salbutamol, salmeterol, fluticasone propionate (FP) and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), currently containing standard CFC propellants, were formulated with HFA134a for investigation. Single doses of salbutamol (200 μg) and salmeterol (50 μg, 100 μg) provided equivalent protection against bronchial provocation, after histamine and methacholine respectively, compared with the current preparation. A double-blind 4 week study comparing the two formulations of salbutamol, used as required in mild to moderate asthma, showed similar effects on morning peak expiratory flow rates (PEFR) and inhaler use. Salmeterol (50 μg) twice daily was compared with the current formulation in a 4 week trial. Improvement in morning PEFR was similar for both formulations. A double-blind study compared the two formulations of FP (250 μg) twice daily in moderate asthmatics previously taking 400-1,000 μg of inhaled corticosteroid daily. Morning PEFR improved in both groups. Safety and tolerability of the HFA134a product were similar to current formulations. The HFA134a formulations of salbutamol, salmeterol and FP provide equivalent efficacy with a similar safety profile to the existing formulations at equivalent doses.

doi:10.1016/0168-3659(94)90222-4
Title:Sustained delivery of detirelix after pulmonary administration of liposomal formulations
Authors:D.B. Bennett
Absract:The LHRH antagonist detirelix was efficiently incorporated into negatively charged liposomes (170±80 nm) that were composed of distearoyl-L-α-phosphatidylcholine, distearoyl-L-α-phosphatidylglycerol, and cholesterol (molar ratio of 52/8.4/39.6, respectively). The pharmacokinetics of detirelix were examined in briefly anesthetized dogs following pulmonary administration of two liposomal formulations that differed in their degree of detirelix incorporation. Liposomes that were purified of extra-liposomal detirelix, designated as Formulation A, retained encapsulated detirelix and also surface-adsorbed detirelix. Subsequent removal of the surface-adsorbed detirelix by gel filtration chromatography gave highly purified liposomes, designated as Formulation B. Intratracheal (i.t.) instillation of Formulation A resulted in relatively high plasma levels in the first 24 h as compared to Formulation B, possibly because of the facile absorption of the surface-adsorbed detirelix. The mean residence times (MRT) of detirelix following i.t. instillation and aerosol inhalation (a.i.) of Formulation A were similar (31.4 h and 28.2 h, respectively). However, following i.t. instillation of Formulation B, plasma levels were sustained up to 4 days and the MRT was increased to 57.4 h. The bioavailability of detirelix from Formulations A and B was 13.5% and 9.6%, respectively, compared to intravenous injection determined from a previous study. Electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions between detirelix and the phospholipids of liposomes and the pulmonary surfactant may account for the high liposomal entrapment efficiency of detirelix and its slow systemic uptake following pulmonary delivery. Our study demonstrates the potential to modulate the absorption of peptides delivered via the lung.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13050615
Title:Inhalable protein powder prepared by spray-freeze-drying using hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin as excipient
Authors:J.C.K. LoH.W. PanJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:The prospect of inhaled biologics has garnered particular interest given the benefits of the pulmonary route of administration. Pertinent considerations in producing inhalable dry powders containing biological medicines relate to aerosol performance and protein stability. Spray-freezedrying (SFD) has emerged as an established method to generate microparticles that can potentially be deposited in the lungs. Here, the SFD conditions and formulation composition were evaluated using bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a model protein and 2-hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HPβCD) as the protein stabilizer. A factorial design analysis was performed to investigate the effects of BSA content, solute concentration of feed solution, and atomization gas flow rate on dispersibility (as an emitted fraction), respirability (as fine particle fraction), particle size, and level of protein aggregation. The atomization gas flow rate was identified as a significant factor in influencing the aerosol performance of the powder formulations and protein aggregation. Nonetheless, high atomization gas flow rate induced aggregation, highlighting the need to further optimize the formulation. Of note, all the formulations exhibited excellent dispersibility, while no fragmentation of BSA occurred, indicating the feasibility of SFD and the promise of HPβCD as an excipient.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2021.1960820
Title:A technology evaluation of CVT-301 (Inbrija): an inhalable therapy for treatment of Parkinson’s disease
Authors:M.M. LippA.J. HickeyR. LangerP.A. LeWitt
Absract:Introduction: The most widely used pharmacological treatment for Parkinson’s disease is levodopa, the precursor for dopamine formation in the brain. Over time, the effectiveness of levodopa declines, and patients experience motor fluctuations, or OFF periods. A levodopa formulation administered via a capsule-based oral inhaler provides a new delivery mechanism for levodopa that provides rapid relief of OFF periods. Areas covered: CVT-301 is a dry powder formulation designed to supply levodopa to the systemic circulation via pulmonary absorption. The technology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety data of this formulation are presented. Expert opinion: Oral inhalation is a novel method of administration for levodopa that bypasses the gastrointestinal tract, allowing levodopa to enter the systemic circulation rapidly and more reliably than oral medications. Gastrointestinal dysfunction, a common feature of Parkinson’s disease, can lead to impaired absorption of oral medications. Pulmonary delivery rapidly elevates levodopa plasma concentrations to provide relief of OFF periods for patients receiving oral levodopa.

doi:10.4187/respcare.03790
Title:Aerosol therapy in pulmonary critical care
Authors:A. Ari
Absract:Aerosolized medications are routinely used for the treatment of critically ill patients. This paper reviews aerosol delivery devices with a focus on issues related to their performance in pulmonary critical care. Factors affecting aerosol drug delivery to mechanically ventilated adults and spontaneously breathing patients with artificial airways are reviewed. Device selection, optimum device technique, and unmet medical needs of aerosol medicine in pulmonary critical care are also discussed.

pui:34496295
Title:Effects of once-daily low-dose administration of sustained-release theophylline on airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness in patients with asthma
Authors:I. Terao
Absract:Bronchial asthma is eosinophilic airway inflammation with enhanced airway responsiveness induced by eosinophilic granule proteins such as eosinophilic cationic protein (ECP) that are released from eosinophils. In the present study using 30 outpatients with mild to moderate asthma who had no history of treatment with steroid inhalation, we examined the effects of 4-week low-dose (200 mg/day) treatment with Uniphyl® Tablets, a sustained-release theophylline formulated for once-daily dosing, on airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness, as well as on respiratory function. Uniphyl® Tablets significantly (p<0.01) decreased peripheral blood eosinophil count from 647.00 to 444.17/mm@sup_begin3@sup_end and ECP level (geometric mean) from 1318 to 741 ng/ml and improved airway hyperresponsiveness as indicated by a decrease in airway hyperresponsiveness (Dmin, geometric mean) from 1.15 to 6.70units. FEV@sub_begin1.0@sub_end and PEF showed statistically significant (p<0.01) improvement from 2.39 to 2.69 L and from 6.21 to 7.14 L/sec, respectively. V@sub_begin25@sub_end and V@sub_begin50@sub_end also showed statistically significant (p<0.05) improvement. Mean blood theophylline concentration at the time the improvements were seen was 3.95mg/mL. These results suggest that low-dose administration of Uniphyl® Tablets has anti-airway inflammatory and anti-airway hyperresponsiveness effects in mild to moderate asthmatic patients.

doi:10.2165/00003495-199958004-00002
Title:Pharmacological factors that influence the choice of inhaled corticosteroids
Authors:S. Edsbäcker
Absract:Local therapeutic effect relative to the risk of adverse effects of inhaled drugs, i.e. airway selectivity, is determined by the efficiency of the delivery system and the physicochemical and pharmacokinetic properties of the drug molecule. For the inhaled corticosteroid formulations, many of the pharmacokinetic prerequisites for airway selectivity have been fulfilled, but there are still differences that may influence the choice of treatment regimens. This choice should be based on disease severity, age, inhalation technique, preference and expected compliance, together with a knowledge of individual features of different corticosteroid formulations. Simple to use, hand-held pressurised or breath-actuated inhalers have favourable lung deposition properties and are appropriate for most patients. For small children or severely ill patients, nebulised treatment or spacers may be advocated. A corticosteroid formulation with a high intrinsic activity and long duration of action allows for once-daily administration in some patient groups. These properties may also partly compensate for noncompliance when more frequent administration schemes are used. The risk of adverse effects is reduced if systemic exposure is held to a minimum by rapid elimination and low tissue distribution.

doi:10.1002/(SICI)1099-0496(199709)15+<51::AID-PPUL11>3.0.CO;2-0
Title:Delivery systems: The science
Authors:C. O'Callaghan
Absract:Different delivery devices may be chosen and the prescribing physician requires information on those suitable for patients of different age, together with the reproducibility of the dose inhaled from the chosen device. A large number of different devices are currently available for inhalation therapy. Although the dose of a drug inhaled by a patient from a device may vary by up to 400%, such information is not usually available to the prescribing doctor. Spacer devices, with facemask attachments for younger children, are now the first choice device for delivery of anti-asthma aerosols to those 5 years of age or less. The dose that spacer devices deliver is governed by a variety of factors, including static charge, face mask design, spacer volume, the particular drug used, and the breathing pattern of the child. Nebulizers are generally prescribed for those not tolerating spacer devices. More recent designs, such as the open-vent nebulizer systems deliver the drug more rapidly to adults. The breath- enhanced open-vent systems have the advantage of delivering significantly more drug to older patients. These systems rely on the relatively large tidal volumes of older patients. As a result of their smaller tidal volumes, young children are unlikely to benefit as greatly from these devices. The open- vent system may result in some young children receiving less drug than from a conventional nebulizer.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(94)00287-F
Title:Dose emissions from marketed dry powder inhalers
Authors:M. HindleP.R. Byron
Absract:The dose emission characteristics of eight marketed dry powder inhalers (DPIs: Intal Spinhaler®, Ventolin and Becotide Diskhalers®, Ventolin and Becotide Rotahalers®, Bricanyl and Pulmicort Turbohalers®, Berotec Inhalator®) have been investigated using the proposed USP dosage unit sampling apparatus for DPIs. Intra- and inter-device variation in emitted doses was determined at air flow rates of 60 and 100 l/min using a 4 l air throughput in each case except Inhalator®, which was tested at 30 l/min only. The sampling apparatus was found to be suitable for quantifying single emitted doses from all of these devices which comprise examples of low, medium and high airflow resistance DPIs (Table 1 footnote). Dose emissions from the DPIs are presented as percentages of the manufacturers' label claims. Under all test flow conditions variability was high, when compared to the uniformity of content standards usually applied to pharmaceutical products; in some cases relative standard deviations (RSD) were greater than 15%, both within and between devices. However, under the proposed USP test flow rate conditions, the total RSD (n = 25) was < 15% around the average emitted dose in all cases except Pulmicort Turbohaler®; such variance (RSD < 15%) is proposed to be acceptable for DPIs delivering current medications. Only the Intal Spinhaler® emitted an average dose similar to its label claim. Testing at 100 l/min vs 60 l/min significantly increased DPI drug emission and reduced the device retention of both the Ventolin® and Becotide® versions of the low resistance devices, Rotahaler® and Diskhaler®. Using these same flow rates for testing the dose emissions from the medium resistance Bricanyl and Pulmicort Turbohalers®, there was no significant difference in drug output between the two flow rates.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119404
Title:Functional similarity of modified cascade impactor to deposit drug particles on cells
Authors:V. KumarJ. BariwalA.S. NarangJ. TsoJ. CheongR.I. Mahato
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is a non-invasive and effective route for local or systemic drug administration. Despite several products in the market, the mechanism of drug absorption from the lungs is not well understood. An in vitro model for aerosol deposition and transport across epithelia that uses particle deposition may be a good predictor of and help understand in vivo drug disposition. The objective of this study was to examine the uptake of HFA fluticasone (Flovent HFA) particles at various stages of the Next Generation Impactor (NGI) by human Calu-3 cell line derived from human bronchial respiratory epithelial cell monolayer. Particles were directly deposited on Calu-3 cells incorporated onto stages 3, 5, and 7 of the NGI at the air-liquid interface (ALI). We modified the NGI apparatus to allow particle deposition directly on cells and determined the in vitro deposition characteristics using modified NGI. Particles of different size ranges showed different in vitro epithelial transport rates. This study highlights the need to develop in vitro test systems to determine the deposition of aerosol particles on cell monolayers by simultaneously considering aerodynamic properties.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666151008124811
Title:Impact of electrostatics on processing and product performance of pharmaceutical solids
Authors:P.M. DesaiB.M.J. TanC.V. LiewL.W. ChanP.W.S. Heng
Absract:Manufacturing of pharmaceutical solids involves different unit operations and processing steps such as powder blending, fluidization, sieving, powder coating, pneumatic conveying and spray drying. During these operations, particles come in contact with other particles, different metallic, glass or polymer surfaces and can become electrically charged. Electrostatic charging often gives a negative connotation as it creates sticking, jamming, segregation or other issues during tablet manufacturing, capsule filling, film packaging and other pharmaceutical operations. A thorough and fundamental appreciation of the current knowledge of mechanisms and the potential outcomes is essential in order to minimize potential risks resulting from this phenomenon. The intent of this review is to discuss the electrostatic properties of pharmaceutical powders, equipment surfaces and devices affecting pharmaceutical processing and product performance. Furthermore, the underlying mechanisms responsible for the electrostatic charging are described and factors affecting electrostatic charging have been reviewed in detail. Feasibility of different methods used in the laboratory and pharmaceutical industry to measure charge propensity and decay has been summarized. Different computational and experimental methods studied have proven that the particle charging is a very complex phenomenon and control of particle charging is extremely important to achieve reliable manufacturing and reproducible product performance.

doi:10.1111/jphp.12190
Title:The formulation, chemical and physical characterisation of clarithromycin-based macrolide solution pressurised metered dose inhaler
Authors:A. SaadatB. ZhuM. HaghiG. KingG. ColomboP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Objectives The formulation of a clarithromycin (CLA) pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) solution formulation opens up exciting therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of inflammation in chronic obstructive lung diseases. In this study, we have formulated and tested a low dose macrolide formulation of CLA for treatment of inflammation and studied its physicochemical and aerosol properties. Methods The system was characterised for in-vitro aerosol performance using an Andersen cascade impactor. Short-term chemical and physical stability was assessed by dose content uniformity over a range of temperatures. Standard physicochemical characteristics were also investigated using scanning electron microscopy, thermo analysis and laser diffraction techniques. Key findings The formulation had a relatively high fine particle fraction (47%) and produced a particle size distribution suitable for inhalation drug delivery. Particles had an irregular morphology and were predominately amorphous. Furthermore, the short-term stability showed the formulation to be stable from 4 to 37°C. Conclusions This study demonstrated the feasibility of formulating a solution-based pMDI containing CLA for the treatment of lung inflammatory diseases. © 2013 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

doi:10.1208/s12249-011-9594-1
Title:Assessment of the influence factors on nasal spray droplet velocity using Phase-Doppler Anemometry (PDA)
Authors:X. LiuW.H. DoubC. Guo
Absract:Droplet velocity is an important parameter that can be used to characterize nasal spray products. In this study, a phase-Doppler anemometry (PDA) system was used to measure the droplet velocities of nasal sprays. A survey of seven commercial nasal spray products showed a range of droplet velocities from 6.7 to 19.2 m/s, all significantly different from each other. A three-level, four-factor Box-Behnken design of experiments (DOE) methodology were applied to investigate the influences of actuation parameters and formulation properties on nasal spray droplet velocity using a set of placebo formulations. The DOE study shows that all four input factors (stroke length, actuation velocity, concentration of the gelling agent, and concentration of the surfactant) have significant influence on droplet velocity. An optimized quadratic model generated from the DOE results describes the inherent relationships between the input factors and droplet velocity thus providing a better understanding of the input factor influences. Overall, PDA provides a new in vitro characterization method for the evaluation of inhalation drugs through assessment of spray velocity and may assist in product development to meet drug delivery equivalency requirements. © 2011 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

pui:46408884
Title:Arformoterol: The first nebulized long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonist
Authors:O. AbdelghanyM.-Y. Merl
Absract:Bronchodilators play an important role in the management of stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Although bronchodilators do not prevent the decline in lung function in patients with COPD, their efficacy in improving disease-related symptoms, reducing the frequency and severity of disease exacerbations, and improving patients' quality of life has been demonstrated in clinical trials. Arfomoterol, the (R,R)-enantiomer of the selective beta @sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist formoterol, is a potent, highly specific, nebulized long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonist recently approved by FDA for the long-term maintenance treatment of bronchoconstriction in patients with COPD, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. In 2 large, 12-week, phase 3 studies, arformoterol demonstrated an efficacy superior to that of placebo and comparable to that of salmeterol in patients with COPD. In these trials, arformoterol was well tolerated, with a safety profile similar to that of other inhaled long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists when used at the FDA-approved dose. Arformoterol is the only long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonist available as an inhalation solution for use with a nebulizer, thus providing a new option for patients who are unable to use a dry-powder inhaler. Evaluation of the long-term safety and efficacy of arformoterol in patients with COPD is currently under way.

pui:36254987
Title:Steroid induced glaucoma
Authors:R. Sapir-PichhadzeE.Z. Blumenthal
Absract:Steroid treatment has gained notoriety due to its tendency to induce multiple side effects, including a variety of ocular side effects. Administration of local, regional, inhalation or systemic steroids may induce the development of ocular hypertension, which might even result in subsequent open angle glaucoma. About one in every three people is considered a potential "steroid responder". A significant elevation of intraocular pressure might result in these patients in response to steroid treatment. Included in this group are patients with first degree relatives suffering from open angle glaucoma. Morphologic changes in the trabecular meshwork (which serves as the site of aqueous humor drainage from the eye) are suggested as the proposed mechanism through which steroid treatment results in glaucoma. Steroids are said to induce the expression of a gene that is located on chromosome 1 and is known as TIGR or GLC1A, its product is a protein called myocilin. Ocular hypertension secondary to steroid treatment is usually reversible, when treatment is limited to a period of less than 12 months. The fear of ocular hypertension, which is usually unnoticed by the patient, obligates regular ophthalmologic follow-up examinations, including tonometry, visual fields and optic disc examinations.

doi:10.1046/j.1365-2125.1999.00098.x
Title:Pharmacokinetics of chlorofluorocarbon and hydrofluoroalkane metered-dose inhaler formulations of beclomethasone dipropionate
Authors:B.J. LipworthC.M. Jackson
Absract:Aims. To compare the pharmacokinetic profile of Beclazone(TM) (beclomethasone dipropionate) in its chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-based and CFC-free formulations. Methods. Ten healthy adults received a single 1000 μg nominal dose (ex-valve) of beclomethasone dipropionate from a CFC inhaler (BEC-CFC) or from a CFC-free inhaler containing hydrofluoroalkane (HFA)-134a (BEC-HFA) in an open-label, randomized, two-way, crossover study. Blood samples were collected predose and over 12 h after inhalation. Comparisons were made of maximum plasma concentration of beclomethasone 17-monopropionate (17-BMP) (C(max)), and area under the plasma concentration vs time curve (AUC). Results. The t(max) was significantly (P < 0.05) earlier with BEC-HFA and plasma levels were significantly higher following administration of BEC-HFA than BEC-CFC. Geometric mean values for AUC were 1.5 fold greater (90% CI 1.3-1.9) and for C(max) were 1.9 fold greater (90% CI 1.6-2.6) following BEC-HFA than BEC-CFC. Conclusions. Our data in healthy volunteers would not be consistent with the manufacturers' recommendation for a microgram equivalent (1:1) nominal dose switch between these HFA and CFC formulations. Further well designed trials are required in asthmatic patients to properly define their respective dose-response relationships for antiasthmatic and systemic adverse effects.

doi:10.1089/jam.1997.10.307
Title:Effect of aerosol delivery system and formulation on nebulized budesonide output
Authors:A. BerlinskiJ.C. Waldrep
Absract:Inhaled glucocorticoids are the first line drug for the treatment of moderate to severe asthma. Nebulization is the inhalation method recommended for children below age 3. There are conflicting data in the literature regarding the clinical efficiency of nebulized Budesonide in children. We hypothesized that the delivery method and the formulation can dramatically affect the drug output and account in part for these conflicting results. In this study, we compared the aerosol output in the 0.4-5 μm particle size range, the nebulization efficiency, and the aerodynamic profile of aerosolized Budesonide. An ultrasonic nebulizer (UN) and 2 jet nebulizers (JN) (a conventional and an active venturi design, at different flow rates) were studied with liposomal and micronized formulations. All combinations of delivery methods and formulations except UN/liposomes had an aerodynamic profile adequate to deliver Budesonide to the lower airways. Liposomes showed a higher output than the micronized suspension (p < 0.01). The maximal output for both formulations was achieved by the active venturi JN operated at 8 Ipm. For this delivery method, liposomes were 56.6% more efficient than the micronized formulation (p < 0.01). The highest output achieved with the micronized formulation was 17.3% of the initial dose placed in the nebulizer. UN had a very low output with both formulations. Our results suggest that the efficiency of the delivery method may account in part for the controversial clinical data available in the literature regarding the effectiveness of nebulized Budesonide for treating asthma in children. Liposomes constitute a suitable alternative for aerosolization of Budesonide with JN.

doi:10.1039/9781782620402-00232
Title:CHAPTER 9: Less Common Dosage Forms
Authors:S. Wicks
Absract:In a 2012 market report, 7468 oral products were marketed, or approved for marketing. Injectables accounted for approximately 3000 products. Many medium and large innovators, generic pharmaceutical companies and contract R&D organisations are capitalised to develop and manufacture these dosage forms on an industrial scale. Other commercially important but less common dosage forms, mentioned in the report, included: ophthalmic, inhalation and transdermal drug delivery systems. These will be considered in this chapter. Many other highly specialised drug delivery systems are commercially available, however, few have become commercially important as yet. These less common dosage forms and novel drug delivery systems are generally developed and commercialised by specialist laboratories. Pharmaceutical scientists, working in these specialised areas, will become expert in the development and manufacture of such products by experience. Others may have to procure services from specialist providers, in addition to their conventional dosage form development duties, and should acquire an understanding of the formulation science principles to manage external projects effectively. This chapter will introduce the fundamental formulation principles of these more commercially important, less common dosage forms. It is not intended to be a detailed discussion of the underlying science at the state of the art, however, the references have been selected carefully to provide a portal into the work of world-leading scientists in these fields. Pharmaceutical scientists contemplating a career in specialist dosage form design and manufacture or those procuring such services will hopefully find this chapter useful.

doi:10.1038/nnano.2007.217
Title:Targeted delivery of magnetic aerosol droplets to the lung
Authors:P. DamesB. GleichA. FlemmerK. HajekN. SeidlF. WiekhorstD. EberbeckI. BittmannC. BergemannT. WeyhL. TrahmsJ. RoseneckerC. Rudolph
Absract:The inhalation of medical aerosols is widely used for the treatment of lung disorders such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, respiratory infection and, more recently, lung cancer. Targeted aerosol delivery to the affected lung tissue may improve therapeutic efficiency and minimize unwanted side effects. Despite enormous progress in optimizing aerosol delivery to the lung, targeted aerosol delivery to specific lung regions other than the airways or the lung periphery has not been adequately achieved to date. Here, we show theoretically by computer-aided simulation, and for the first time experimentally in mice, that targeted aerosol delivery to the lung can be achieved with aerosol droplets comprising superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles - so-called nanomagnetosols - in combination with a target-directed magnetic gradient field. We suggest that nanomagnetosols may be useful for treating localized lung disease, by targeting foci of bacterial infection or tumour nodules. © 2007 Nature Publishing Group.

doi:10.1007/s11095-012-0891-5
Title:Nanocarriers targeting dendritic cells for pulmonary vaccine delivery
Authors:N.K. KundaS. SomavarapuS.B. GordonG.A. HutcheonI.Y. Saleem
Absract:Pulmonary vaccine delivery has gained significant attention as an alternate route for vaccination without the use of needles. Immunization through the pulmonary route induces both mucosal and systemic immunity, and the delivery of antigens in a dry powder state can overcome some challenges such as cold-chain and availability of medical personnel compared to traditional liquid-based vaccines. Antigens formulated as nanoparticles (NPs) reach the respiratory airways of the lungs providing greater chance of uptake by relevant immune cells. In addition, effective targeting of antigens to the most 'professional' antigen presenting cells (APCs), the dendritic cells (DCs) yields an enhanced immune response and the use of an adjuvant further augments the generated immune response thus requiring less antigen/dosage to achieve vaccination. This review discusses the pulmonary delivery of vaccines, methods of preparing NPs for antigen delivery and targeting, the importance of targeting DCs and different techniques involved in formulating dry powders suitable for inhalation. © 2012 Springer Science+Business Media New York.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.03.020
Title:Influence of primary crystallisation conditions on the mechanical and interfacial properties of micronised budesonide for dry powder inhalation
Authors:H.A. KubavatJ. ShurG. RuecroftD. HipkissR. Price
Absract:Investigate the influence of primary crystallisation conditions on the mechanical properties and secondary processing behaviour of budesonide for dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. Young's modulus of two batches of budesonide crystals (samples A and B) produced using different anti-solvents was determined using nanoindentation. Physicochemical and surface interfacial properties via the cohesive-adhesive balance (CAB) approach to colloid probe atomic force microscopy (AFM) of air-jet micronised budesonide crystals were also investigated. These data were correlated to in vitro aerosolization performance of carrier-based DPI formulations containing either budesonide samples A or B and lactose monohydrate. Young's modulus of budesonide samples A and B crystals was 0.95 and 4.04 GPa, respectively. Sample A crystals with low Young's modulus exhibited poorer micronisation efficiency than sample B. CAB analysis of micronised budesonide samples A and B, suggest that sample B budesonide had a greater adhesion to lactose than sample A. These data correlated with in vitro aerosolisation studies, which showed that the fine particle delivery of budesonide sample A was higher than that of sample B. In conclusion, crystallisation conditions may affect the mechanical properties of budesonide, and therefore secondary processing of the material and their interfacial properties and product performance in carrier based DPI formulations. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:355591135
Title:Isobutane driven salbutamol sulfate metered dose inhaler: Formulation selection and respiratory tract absorption in guinea pigs
Authors:L. DingJ.-S. Zhang
Absract:This paper is to study the iso-butane (A-31)-driven salbutamol sulfate (SS) metered dose inhaler (MDI) formulations and inhaling status in guinea pigs. Solubility determination and orthogonal design were used to screen non-chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) SS MDI formulations. Intubation inhalation of MDI in guinea pigs was useded as a main administration method. Fluorescence HPLC detection method was testified as a potential method in assaying the concentration of SS in plasma of guinea pigs after inhaling various SS MDI formulations. Analysis of the data was executed with statistical moment calculation from which pharmacokinetic parameters were obtained. The results show that A-31 based on SS MDI formulations were screened and the guinea pigs in vivo determination method after inhaling SS MDI was established. The zero-moment rations of SS/A-31 MDI formulation to contrast sample and CFC SS MDI was 143.26% and 147.01%, respectively. The first moment value of SS/A-31 MDI formulation was the highest. It is a preliminary conclusion that the absorption result of SS/A-31 MDI formulation inhaled by guinea pigs is equivalent to HFA-134a formulation in sale and better than CFC formulation. A-31 could be used as a potential substitute candidate for CFC MDI propellant.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Pseudomonas phage cocktail powders for respiratory infections
Authors:M. LiR.Y. Kyung ChangH.-K. Chan
Absract:Respiratory infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa are highly problematic due to intrinsic and acquired resistance to multiple antibiotics. Inhaled phage therapy is reconsidered as a promising supplement to antibiotics. Since phages are specific to the bacterial hosts, cocktails containing multiple types of phages are used to maximize the therapeutic outcome by broadening the host range. Inhalation dry powders provide a fast and convenient way to administer therapeutic agents directly to the lungs. This study aimed to produce phage cocktail powders for treatment of bacterial infections caused by P. aeruginosa. Spray-drying was used to produce a three-phage cocktail formulation targeting specific bacterial hosts. The formulation contained PEV20 and PEV1 (both long-tailed myovirus phages), PEV2 (a short-tailed podovirus phage), with leucine (20wt. %) and lactose (80wt.%) as excipients. The phages were reasonably robust to spraydrying, showing a titre reduction of 0.11-1.3 logs in the cocktail powder. The powder contained mostly small, spherical amorphous particles (volume median diameter of 1.9 μm) with weak crystallinity due to leucine as shown by the X-ray diffraction. Dispersion of the powder using the high-and low-resistance Osmohalers produced fine particle fraction (wt. % of particles <5 μm in the aerosols related to the loaded dose) values of 62.7 ± 2.1% and 45.4 ± 0.27% at 60 and 100 L/min, respectively. To conclude, the inhalable cocktail formulation showed powder properties and in vitro phage activity suitable to combat drug resistant P. aeruginosa in respiratory infections.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Spray dried powders for nasal application -influence of particle morphology and filling process on aerosol generation
Authors:A. JüptnerS. SarrailhR. Scherließ
Absract:Spray drying is an interesting formulation alternative to interactive blends, which are commonly used in oral inhalation. Particles of spherical morphology can be obtained by this technology. By changing process parameters or adding excipients morphology, density and size can be tailored to modify dispersion characteristics and location of deposition. Being already used in pulmonary delivery they are also an opportunity in nasal application. In this study it was shown that spray dried formulations can be filled with equipment like a vacuum drum system. The nasal deposition of spherical particles is affected by the filling process, if the assessment of deposition in a nasal cast is conducted without airflow. During the filling process powder plugs are formed which are less dispersible than the manually filled powder. A similar deposition profile to manually filled powders is seen with an airflow of 15 L/min because the dispersion of the built plugs is improved. Besides the filling process the morphology of particles also has an impact on the deposition profile. Particles with a wrinkled morphology tend to have a lower deposition in the middle and upper turbinates at an airflow of 15 L/min than at 0 L/min compared to the spherical particles. Also the postnasal fraction is increased markedly compared to spherical particles. Wrinkled particles with HPMC show the same trend as particles with leucine but they have a lower postnasal fraction. For targeting the upper turbinates (e.g. for nose-tobrain delivery via the olfactory region) a wrinkled morphology can be disadvantageous, if administered to an airflow of 15 L/min.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2014.12.001
Title:Particle engineering to enhance or lessen particle uptake by alveolar macrophages and to influence the therapeutic outcome
Authors:B. PatelN. GuptaF. Ahsan
Absract:The alveolar macrophages defend the lung against airborne pollutants and infectious microorganisms. Recent advances in the understanding of the role of macrophages in generation of immunological and inflammatory responses have established that alveolar macrophages could be used as targets for drug delivery. Enhanced uptake of particulate drug carriers by macrophages could be beneficial in pathological conditions such as tuberculosis and HIV where infectious microorganisms utilize macrophages as a safe haven and a vehicle to further infections. In contrary, to achieve prolonged residence time, extended drug release and in desired situations, increased systemic absorption, drug carrying particles that can avoid recognition and uptake by alveolar macrophages may prove to be significantly advantageous. Drug targeting to macrophages can achieve superior therapeutic efficacy for the treatment of medical conditions that involve tumorigenesis, inflammation and infections. Various particulate carriers containing therapeutic agents have been used to deliver drugs to the macrophages residing in the lung. Particulate systems have also been engineered to facilitate or avoid uptake by macrophages. But pathological conditions to be treated and drug delivery goals dictate the engineering approach for reducing or enhancing uptake by macrophages. In this review, we have summarized the influence of various physicochemical properties - composition, size, shape, pegylation and presence or absence of surface ligands - of particulate carriers on their uptake by macrophages. We have also described the macrophage biology and strategies that have been used to influence uptake and avoidance of particulate carriers by macrophages.

doi:10.2174/1872211309666150729122231
Title:Recent patents in pulmonary delivery of macromolecules
Authors:A. RayA. MandalA.K. Mitra
Absract:Pulmonary delivery is a non-invasive form of delivery that holds tremendous therapeutic promise for topical and systemic administration of several macromolecules. Oral administration of macromolecules has several limitations such as low bioavailability, degradation of drug before reaching circulation and insufficient absorption across intestinal membrane. Administration of macromolecules such as proteins, peptides and nucleic acids via inhalation offers great potential due to the avoidance of first pass metabolism, higher surface area and rapid clinical response. However, delivery of reproducible, uniform and safe doses of inhaled particles remains a major challenge for clinical translation. Recent advances in the fields of biotechnology and particle engineering led to progress in novel pulmonary drug delivery systems. Moreover, significant developments in carriers and delivery devices prevent denaturation of macromolecules and control their release within the lungs. This article reviews the advances in pulmonary drug delivery systems by focusing on the recent patents in delivery of macromolecules. Furthermore, recent patents in gene delivery to the lungs have also been discussed. List of patents included in this review is comprehensive in terms of pulmonary delivery of therapeutics. It includes inventions related to proteins and peptides, DNA therapeutics, siRNA and other genetic materials with therapeutic applications. The diseases targeted by these therapeutic molecules are varied including but not limited to different forms of cancer, respiratory diseases etc.

doi:10.1089/jam.2006.0557
Title:The effect of biphasic inhalation profiles on the deposition and clearance of coarse (6.5 μm) bolus aerosols
Authors:A.R. ClarkC.B. ChambersD. MuirM.T. NewhouseS. PaboojianC. Schuler
Absract:The influence of particle size upon deposition in the human airways is well understood. Pharmaceutical aerosol formulators strive to generate fine aerosols with the potential to penetrate into the deep lung. However, flow rate can also have a major influence on deposition, particularly with coarse aerosols. This study investigated the use of biphasic flow profiles with low flow in the proximal conducting airway as a means of effecting efficient delivery of a coarse aerosol. The study shows that 6.5-μm MMAD aerosol droplets can be deposited in the lung with high efficiency. The delivery technique achieved greater than 70% of the inhaled dose deposited in the whole lung and greater than 50% deposited in the lung periphery. Furthermore, the biphasic flow profiles used, with initial low flow segments of between 300 mL and 900 mL inhaled volume at 8 L/min, are practical flow regimens that should be acceptable to patients and that can be applied to single-breath dry powder inhalers. Twenty-four-hour clearance and Penetration Index measurements were used as a marker for peripheral deposition, and the data show a clear correlation between Penetration Index and 24-h retention. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/S1773-2247(06)50066-8
Title:The effect of micronization method on characterization and deposition profiles of different dry powder formulations of cefotaxime sodium
Authors:A.R. NajafabadiR. AsgharianH. TajerzadehK. GilaniA. VatanaraM. Darabi
Absract:Aerosol therapy is used as an alternative to systemic treatments to treat symptoms of the disease locally and to avoid the use of large doses of drugs that result in severe side effects in other organs. Cefotaxime sodium, as a third generation of cephalosporins, has a high degree of stability in the presence of (beta)-lactamases, both penicillinases and cephalosporinases, of Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. The aim of this study was to compare the effect of two methods of micronization: spray drying and jet milling on the characterization and deposition profile of different formulations of cefotaxime as a dry powder inhalation. The powder properties of the samples were examined by laser diffraction, scanning electron micrography, differential scanning calorimetery, Karl fisher water content, helium densitometer and X-ray diffraction analysis. Deposition profiles of formulations were determined using Twin Stage Impinger with a Spinhaler(r) at a flow rate of 60 Llmin. An amorphous form of the drug obtained when spray drying was used. However, spray dried particles were larger than jet milled particles, these particles exhibited improved aerodynamic properties. Fine particle fractions of the drug aerosolized from the formulations ranged from 12.98 up to 30.57%. The highest fine particle fraction was obtained by formulation containing spray dried drug and lactose (63-90 μm) as a carrier with drug/carrier ratio 2:1. In addition, use of lactose carrier enhanced the deposition profiles of all formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2004.02.002
Title:The influence of carrier roughness on adhesion, content uniformity and the in vitro deposition of terbutaline sulphate from dry powder inhalers
Authors:M.-P. FlamentP. LetermeA. Gayot
Absract:The aim of this study was to establish a correlation between carrier characteristics and the dispersibility of drug from the blend. The influence of the roughness of a commonly used carrier material, lactose monohydrate, on the adhesion, dose uniformity, and aerodynamic properties of a model drug, terbutaline sulphate was investigated. Evaluation of adhesion was carried out with a mechanical sieve and an Alpine air-jet sieve. For the characterisation of lactose roughness, we used image analysis software. Aerodynamic evaluation of fine particle dose and emitted dose was obtained using a twin stage impinger. The study with the mechanical sieve demonstrated that at least 60% of drug adheres to lactose. The Alpine air-jet sieve assays showed there was a correlation between drug separation from a carrier by sieving and that obtained from longer in vitro deposition studies. Adhesion, blend homogeneity and stability are related to the surface roughness of the lactose used as carrier. There is a linear relationship between the parameters "fine particle fraction" and "roughness". A compromise between homogeneity and drug liberation must be found: a certain roughness is necessary to allow for drug adhesion and blend homogeneity, but if too high it will prevent drug liberation after inhalation. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.05.077
Title:Gentamicin and leucine inhalable powder: What about antipseudomonal activity and permeation through cystic fibrosis mucus?
Authors:P. RussoM. StiglianiL. ProtaG. AuriemmaC. CrescenziA. PortaR.P. Aquino
Absract:The aim of this study was to evaluate the permeation properties of gentamicin (G) in a novel dry powder form for inhalation through an artificial mucus model. Moreover, since respiratory infections sustained by Pseudomonas are a major cause of sickness and death in CF patients, the susceptibility of P. aeruginosa to engineered G powders was investigated. Micronized G and G/leucine (85:15) formulations were produced by co-spray-drying, using process parameters and conditions previously set. Powders were characterized in terms of yield, drug content and aerodynamic profiles, analyzed by Andersen Cascade Impactor. Different mucus models were prepared, showing composition and viscosity similar to those of the native CF mucus. To investigate the impact on drug permeation, Franz-type vertical diffusion cells were used; the powders were applied directly on a synthetic membrane with or without the interposition of the artificial mucus layer. In buffer, gentamicin showed a diffusion controlled release; the presence of leucine reduced powder wettability and, consequently, the permeation rate. Otherwise, mucus delayed drug permeation from both G and G/leucine formulations, with a faint influence of the aminoacid. Antimicrobial tests revealed that G/leu engineered particles are able to preserve the antipseudomonal activity, even in presence of the mucus. © 2012 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1089/jam.2007.0613
Title:Lung deposition of formoterol HFA (Atimos®/Forair®) in healthy volunteers, asthmatic and COPD patients
Authors:S. HäussermannD. AcerbiP. BrandC. HerpichG. PoliK. SommererT. Meyer
Absract:In this study, the influence of lung function on lung deposition of a radioactively labeled Formotoerol HFA MDI (Forair®) was investigated. Eighteen subjects were measured: 6 healthy subjects(FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end = 107% pred), 6 patients with Asthma (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end = 72% pred), and 6 patients with COPD (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end = 40% pred). The lung deposition of the radioactive-labeled drug was measured with a gamma camera. The lung deposition relative to the emitted dose was 31% for healthy subjects, 34% for asthmatics, and 35% for COPD patients. These data suggest a comparable lung deposition in the different populations. There was no significant correlation between lung function (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and lung deposition. The extrathoracic deposition was around 50%. The finding were that lung deposition of the inhaled Formoterol did not depend on lung function and the relative high values of lung deposition can be explained by the small particle size (0.8 μm) of the HFA-Formoterol- Formulation and the slow inhalation (30 L/min flow) used in this study. It can be concluded, that with this modern HFA drug formulation, the deposition is high, even in obstructed lungs. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2006.07.013
Title:Pulmonary delivery of opioids as pain therapeutics
Authors:S.J. FarrB.A. Otulana
Absract:Pulmonary opioid delivery, on the basis of the fact that small molecular entities can be rapidly and completely absorbed from the peripheral lung, poses a unique opportunity for the treatment of severe (breakthrough) pain, which currently is treated with intravenous therapy. Early clinical studies involving inhaled opioids were focused on treatment of dyspnoea and not pain management, but they showed that inhalation of various opioid compounds is safe, even in severely ill patients. The advent of specialized and efficient pulmonary drug delivery systems has facilitated the evaluation of inhaled opioids, such as morphine and fentanyl, for management of severe pain associated with surgery or malignant disease. This review will summarize recent literature on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of inhaled opioids and will discuss safety and efficacy in comparison to injection and other opioid dosage forms available for pain therapy. Finally, regulatory considerations will be discussed towards the approval of this new delivery paradigm for opioid drugs. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1006/pupt.2002.0375
Title:Single-dose comparison of formoterol (Oxis®) Turbuhaler® 6 μg and formoterol Aerolizer® 12 μg in moderate to severe asthma: A randomised, crossover study
Authors:P. Schlimmer
Absract:Formoterol inhaled via Turbuhaler® (Oxis®) or Aerolizer® (Foradil®) produces fast and long-lasting bronchodilation in asthmatic patients. While formoterol Turbuhaler provides sustained efficacy for ≥ 12 h at a metered dose of 6 μg (delivered dose 4.5 μg), the recommended metered dose for formoterol Aerolizer is 12 μg (delivered dose unknown). This difference may be attributable to improved lung deposition with the Turbuhaler. This open, randomised, crossover study compared the effects of a single metered dose of formoterol Turbuhaler 6 μg and formoterol Aerolizer 12 μg in 16 patients with stable moderate-to-severe asthma. Pulmonary function, assessed by measuring specific airway conductance (sGaw), was determined at intervals of ≤ 8 h post-inhalation of each drug on separate study days. Both inhalers increased sGaw at all time points. There were no significant differences between the two formulations in onset of activity, maximum effect, duration of effect or area under the response curve. Furthermore, both treatments were well tolerated with no differences in adverse events, blood pressure or heart rate; thus the formoterol Turbuhaler may, therefore, have an improved therapeutic index. This pilot study indicates that the same clinical effect can be achieved with half the metered dose (6 μg) of formoterol Turbuhaler compared with formoterol Aerolizer (12 μg). © 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(02)00245-4
Title:Nebulization of niosomal all-trans-retinoic acid: An inexpensive alternative to conventional liposomes
Authors:T.R. DesaiW.H. Finlay
Absract:In this study we have demonstrated the potential of encapsulating all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) in niosomes and delivering it as an inhaled aerosol. Niosomes may provide a means to reduce the toxicity of ATRA and alter the pharmacokinetics in a manner similar to liposomes. In addition, the low cost of the surfactants used for preparing niosomes and their greater stability compared with liposomes makes them an attractive alternative. Various nonionic surfactants were used to achieve optimum encapsulation and nebulization efficiencies, and the best formulations were obtained with combinations of (Span 20+Tween 80) and (Span 60+Tween 80) using an ATRA concentration of 1 mg/ml. The aerosol produced with the selected niosomal formulations upon nebulization in PARI LC STAR nebulizers driven by a Pulmo-Aide compressor was subsequently analyzed for the determination of size distribution and entrapment efficiencies on each stage of an Anderson cascade impactor operated in a manner that avoids spurious sizing due to droplet evaporation. Mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMADs) of 3.7±0.3 and 3.58±0.03 μm, geometric standard deviation (GSD) values of 1.59±0.17 and 1.51±0.01 and entrapment efficiencies well above 50% were obtained for the optimized formulations. The results are very encouraging and offer an alternative approach to the respiratory delivery of ATRA by aerosolization. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:34177147
Title:Inhaled corticosteroid delivery systems: Clinical role of a breath-actuated device
Authors:D. Donnell
Absract:Several devices have been developed to overcome the need to co-ordinate actuation with inhalation required during use of a pressurised metered dose inhaler (MDI) and to improve drug delivery to the lung. These include spacer attachments for MDIs, dry powder inhalers and breath-actuated MDIs. The breath-actuated Autohaler™ (3M Pharmaceuticals) is a compact, multidose inhaler device that, unlike dry powder inhalers, does not rely on the patient's inspiratory effort to aerosolise the dose of medication. Due to its simple operation, the Autohaler is suitable for patients unable to operate a conventional MDI efficiently, including the elderly, children, patients with arthritis and patients with low inspiratory flow rates. The mandatory replacement of chlorofluorocarbon propellants with non-ozone-depleting propellants has given the opportunity to improve drug delivery characteristics of MDIs. Recently, a formulation of beclomethasone dipropionate in hydrofluoroalkane-134a (HFA-BDP), has been developed in a conventional MDI that delivers most of the emitted dose to the lung. Drug deposition studies show that the HFA-BDP formulation in the Autohaler device has a similar lung deposition pattern to drug delivered from the MDI, when used correctly, and dose delivery is consistent across a wide range of inspiratory flow rates. Furthermore, HFA-BDP Autohaler has similar clinical benefits to CFC-BDP Autohaler but at less than half the dose. HFA-BDP Autohaler offers a useful CFC-free delivery option for patients challenged by the conventional MDI device.

doi:10.1136/oemed-2018-ICOHabstracts.1334
Title:Pesticide prevention starts from the premarketing phase
Authors:A. Moretto
Absract:Pesticide active ingredients are extensively studied before being authorised for use. These include, among others, efficacy studies, several toxicity studies in mammals and in ecotoxicological relevant species. From these studies, health based limits for the consumer are derived such as the acceptable daily intake (ADI), the acute reference dose (ARfD) and the exposure limits for pesticide operators (AOEL); also, environmental limits are defined and levels of residues in food commodities determined. Then the exposure for consumer and operators is estimated by using different mathematical models based on the proposed uses scenario (e.g: application doses, period and interval between application, etc). A further step is to compare the estimated exposure with the reference value to assess the risk and conclude if the proposed use is safe, therefore the active ingredient can be put on the market, or not. It has to be underlined that the use scenario for exposure estimation is always based on a worst-case approach to cover all possible conditions. In particular, estimation of operators' exposure is made on mathematical models based on dermal and inhalation exposures measured following different type of application in several field studies. Finally, if safe uses have been identified, approval of an active ingredient and of a commercial formulation is consequently accompanied by indication of the proper application modalities and PPE to be used by the pesticide applicator to reflect the scenario evaluated. Moreover, the risk assessment is conducted not only for consumer and operators but also for workers re-entering the treated crops, bystander, and especially resident. Therefore, it can be concluded that if an active ingredient is used on crops according the Good Agricultural Practice and according all indications on the label (e.g.: use of specific PPE, buffer zone, post harvesting interval), negligible risk for human and environment is expected.

doi:10.1002/cpt.373
Title:Batch-to-batch pharmacokinetic variability confounds current bioequivalence regulations: A dry powder inhaler randomized clinical trial
Authors:E. Burmeister GetzK.J. CarrollB. JonesL.Z. Benet
Absract:Current pharmacokinetic (PK) bioequivalence guidelines do not account for batch-to-batch variability in study design or analysis. Here we evaluate the magnitude of batch-to-batch PK variability for Advair Diskus 100/50. Single doses of fluticasone propionate and salmeterol combinations were administered by oral inhalation to healthy subjects in a randomized clinical crossover study comparing three different batches purchased from the market, with one batch replicated across two treatment periods. All pairwise comparisons between different batches failed the PK bioequivalence statistical test, demonstrating substantial PK differences between batches that were large enough to demonstrate bio-inequivalence in some cases. In contrast, between-replicate PK bioequivalence was demonstrated for the replicated batch. Between-batch variance was ∼40–70% of the estimated residual error. This large additional source of variability necessitates re-evaluation of bioequivalence assessment criteria to yield a result that is both generalizable and consistent with the principles of type I and type II error rate control.

pui:372537332
Title:Up-to-date on inhaled antibiotic therapy: Current evidence and perspectives
Authors:A.S. Melani
Absract:Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a key-contributor to the vicious cycle of bronchial infection and inflammation leading to respiratory failure, typically in adult patients with cystic fibrosis (FC), but even in other chronic respiratory diseases, such as COPD, non-fibrocystic bronchiectasis and subjects with tracheostomy. There is need of safe and effective antimicrobial treatment for Pseudomonas aeruginosa Bronchial Infections (BIPa). Aerosolized antibiotics have been used for more than 30 years to manage difficult-to-treat chronic lung infections, and, recently, some of these practices have been evidence-based. Tobramycin, aztreonam and colistimethate are effective, safe and currently approved for inhalation in FC patients with chronic BIPa, either as monotherapy, or in combination with other antibiotics orally or intravenously administered. Probably, the indication for aerosolized antibiotic therapy will enlarge to a larger number of respiratory diseases with BIPa. In the meanwhile, major advances, such as newer more efficient and faster antibiotic formulations and delivery devices, have been made in the last years. We conclude that antimicrobial aerosolization is a standard treatment for CF subjects with BIPa and is increasingly used to manage difficult-to-treat chronic lung infections. A proper treatment with aerosolized antibiotics in real life will be a challenge for pulmonologists, because it requires a standardized technique and equipment, while nebulizer practice is currently neglected.

doi:10.4155/tde.11.4
Title:Conference report: Drug delivery to the lungs 21
Authors:J.P. MitchellS.C. Nichols
Absract:Drug Delivery to the Lungs 21 was focused exclusively on delivery technologies of medicines for the treatment of diseases that are 'local' to the respiratory tract or for wider 'systemic' distribution. Therefore, the range of diseases that can be treated via delivering drugs to the lungs is large and diverse. This diversity means that the delivery technologies (device and/or formulation) are also very varied. Moreover, the patient is critically involved when using drug-delivery technologies to the lungs as their inhalation and 'user' characteristics are pivotal in ensuring that the correct dose is given and reaches the appropriate part of the respiratory tract. Thus, Drug Delivery to the Lungs 21 was a wide-ranging conference, ideal for an overview of current and future inhaled-delivery technologies. The conference was split into various themed sections and supported by approximately 65 posters. Furthermore, the conference was preceded by a workshop organized by the European Pharmaceutical Aerosol Group on abbreviated impactor measurement, which is a tool currently of much interest in assessing aerosol products (see separate summary). The conference initiated a number of innovations this year, including a Facebook page on which delegates and organizers could follow and 'chat' about conference proceedings. © 2011 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2004.11.026
Title:Stability of chitosan-pDNA complex powder prepared by supercritical carbon dioxide process
Authors:H. OkamotoY. SakakuraK. ShirakiK. OkaS. NishidaH. TodoK. IidaK. Danjo
Absract:The present study examined the stability of a gene in powders prepared with supercritical carbon dioxide (CO@sub_begin2@sub_end) from the viewpoints of the ternary structure of DNA and in vivo transfection potential. An aqueous chitosan-pCMV-Luc complex solution containing mannitol was injected into the stream of a supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end/ethanol admixture to precipitate a gene powder. The obtained gene powders and gene solutions were placed in stability chambers at 25 or 40°C for 4 weeks. The integrity and transfection potency of the gene were examined by electrophoresis and in vivo pulmonary transfection study in mice. The supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end process decreased the supercoiled DNA during the manufacturing process; however, the decrease in the remaining supercoiled and open circular DNA in the powders during storage was much slower than that in solutions. In addition, the powders had higher transfection potency than the solutions containing the same amount of DNA. The effect of chitosan on the stability of DNA in solutions was not obvious in the solutions but it improved the stability of DNA in powders during manufacturing and storage. Thus, a gene powder with a cationic vector is a promising ready-to-use formulation for inhalation therapy of pulmonary diseases. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(97)00105-1
Title:Ultrasonic nebulisers for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:K.M.G. TaylorO.N.M. McCallion
Absract:Nebulisers are widely used to generate therapeutic aerosols for inhalation therapy. In this paper the factors determining aerosol size and drug output from ultrasonic nebulisers are discussed. The mechanism of droplet formation is described in relation to capillary wave production on the surface of the liquid being atomised and the implosion of cavitation bubbles near its surface. There are many commercially available ultrasonic nebulisers, and their design is a major factor determining aerosol characteristics and output, in particular the operating frequency of the devices (usually 1-3 MHz), the presence of a fan to assist droplet output and the positioning of baffles. The size of aerosols produced and the rate of fluid output is often larger than comparable jet nebulisers. They also have less tendency to increase the concentration of dissolved solutes. However, the residual or 'dead' volume of fluid is usually larger. The physicochemical properties of fluids for nebulisation significantly affect nebuliser performance. Viscosity is particularly important, with an increased viscosity increasing aerosol size but reducing output. Fluids of high viscosity cannot be efficiently atomised. Although most preparations for nebulisation are solutions some suspension formulations are also commercially available. Suspensions are generally less efficiently delivered by ultrasonic than jet nebulisers with an inverse relationship between the size of suspended particles and their output. During use, the temperature of fluids in the reservoir of ultrasonic nebulisers increases. This may result in the degradation of heat sensitive materials. However, potentially heat sensitive such as proteins and liposomes have been successfully delivered using such devices.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(94)00265-7
Title:A study of @sup_begin99m@sup_endtechnetium-labelled beclomethasone dipropionate dilauroylphosphatidylcholine liposome aerosol in normal volunteers
Authors:M. VidgrenJ.C. WaldrepJ. ArppeM. BlackJ.A. RodarteW. ColeV. Knight
Absract:@sup_begin99m@sup_endTechnetium (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc) was bound to preformed beclomethasone dipropionate (Bec) dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC) liposomes (Bec-DLPC) in the presence of the reducing agent, stannous chloride. Labelling efficiency was 96-99% as determined by micropartition and chromatographic analysis. Andersen cascade impactor analysis showed close correlation of the distribution of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc, DLPC, and Bec over the full range of particle sizes sampled. In mouse biodistribution studies, approximately one-half of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc activity delivered to the lungs was retained at 24 h. @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc clearance was almost exclusively via the gastrointestinal tract. In contrast, free @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc (administered unbound to Bec-DLPC) liposomes was cleared from mouse lungs within a few minutes. Six normal volunteers inhaled 20 breaths of the labelled Bec-DLPC liposome aerosol from each of two nebulizers (Aerotech II, MMAD 1.5 μm, GSD 2.4) (Spira, MMAD 3.6 μm, GSD 2.5). Immediately following inhalation, the gamma camera analysis showed 17% pulmonary deposition of inhaled @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-Bec-DLPC with the Aerotech II and 14% with the Spira nebulizer. At 3 h after Aerotech II exposure, 93% of deposited activity was retained in the lung and 82% was retained from the Spira nebulizer. These findings suggest that there is a stable association of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc with the Bec-DLPC liposomes and that inhaled liposomes were cleared slowly from the lungs of normal volunteers. The smaller particles produced by the Aerotech II nebulizer are presumably responsible for the somewhat larger deposition and longer persistence of pulmonary activity. These findings encourage further study of this modality of treatment for asthma and related conditions.

doi:10.1007/s40267-017-0392-z
Title:Fluticasone furoate/vilanterol dry-powder inhaler in asthma: a guide to its use in the EU
Authors:E.D. DeeksK.A. Lyseng-WilliamsonY.Y. Syed
Absract:Fluticasone furoate/vilanterol [Relvar@sup_begin®@sup_end, Revinty@sup_begin®@sup_end (EU); Breo@sup_begin®@sup_end (USA)], a fixed-dose combination of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long-acting β2-adrenoreceptor agonist (LABA), is delivered via Ellipta@sup_begin®@sup_end, a dry powder inhaler and is administered once daily. EU approval of the combination for the treatment of asthma in adults and adolescents, for whom ICS/LABA therapy is appropriate, was based on the findings of phase 3 trials in patients (aged ≥12 years) whose asthma was uncontrolled by ICS and/or ICS/LABA therapy. Once-daily fluticasone furoate/vilanterol improved pulmonary function in these studies, being as effective as twice-daily fluticasone propionate/salmeterol and more effective than twice-daily fluticasone propionate. In addition, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol reduced the risk of severe asthma exacerbations, and improved asthma control and measures of asthma-related quality of life. It is generally well tolerated and, due to the low systemic exposure to fluticasone furoate and vilanterol when administered via inhalation, does not appear to be associated with clinically relevant systemic effects. With the added convenience of once-daily administration (which has the potential to improve treatment adherence in some patients), fluticasone furoate/vilanterol is a useful addition to the other fixed ICS/LABA combinations currently available for asthma, all of which require twice-daily administration.

doi:10.4168/aair.2014.6.5.376
Title:Small airways dysfunction in asthma: Evaluation and management to improve asthma control
Authors:O.S. Usmani
Absract:The small airways have been neglected for many years, but interest in the topic has been rekindled with recent advances in measurement techniques to assess this region and also the ability to deliver therapeutics to the distal airways. Current levels of disease control in asthmatic patients remain poor and there are several contributory factors including; poor treatment compliance, heterogeneity of asthma phenotypes and associated comorbidities. However, the proposition that we may not be targeting all the inflammation that is present throughout the whole respiratory tree may also be an important factor. Indeed decades ago, pathologists and physiologists clearly identified the importance of small airways dysfunction in asthmatic patients. With improved inhaler technology to deliver drug to target the whole respiratory tree and more sensitive measures to assess the distal airways, we should certainly give greater consideration to treating the small airway region when seeing our asthmatic patients in clinic. The aim of this review is to address the relevance of small airways dysfunction in the daily clinical management of patients with asthma. In particular the role of small particle aerosols in the management of patients with asthma will be explored.

doi:10.1590/S1984-82502013000200004
Title:Formulation and evaluation of CFC free inhalers for beclomethasone dipropionate
Authors:G.K.M. TalasilaB.V. MukkalaS. Vattikuri
Absract:Beclomethasone dipropionate CFC free inhalation formulations were developed with a view to treat asthma prophylactically. Dry powder inhalers (DPI) for beclomethasone dipropionate were prepared with different grades of lactose monohydrate. The influence of carrier and overages on performance of DPI was studied. Metered dose inhalers (MDI) with HFA based propellants were formulated with various doses, overages and different concentrations of alcohol. Formulated DPI and MDI were evaluated for various official and unofficial quality control tests. The influence of over doses on valve delivery, effect of overages on emitted dose and influence of alcohol on spray pattern from MDI were studied. The better fine particle fraction and emitted dose were obtained from the DPI formulated with 10:90 ratio of fine lactose: coarse lactose and with 20% w/w overages. The studies on MDI revealed that the 15% of overdoses are required for effective valve delivery and 20% overages are required for 100% drug delivery. 5-10%v/v alcohol was found to be preferable to get optimum emitted dose and fine particle fraction.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.09.006
Title:Magnesium stearate increases salbutamol sulphate dispersion: What is the mechanism?
Authors:T. TayS. DasP. Stewart
Absract:The objective was to understand the mechanism of enhancement in salbutamol sulphate (SS) respiratory deposition through addition of magnesium stearate (MgSt). The mixing of MgSt with micronized SS occurred using a Turbula mixer (101 rpm), whilst varying mixing time and MgSt concentration and size. Deposition of SS was determined by a twin-stage impinger. Particle size distributions were obtained using the Malvern Mastersizer 2000. Morphology was examined by scanning electron microscopy and surface energy determined using inverse gas chromatography. Mixing of SS with increasing concentrations of MgSt improved dispersion (FPF of 3.3% using 1% w/w MgSt, 4.5% using 5% w/w MgSt and 7.8% using 10% w/w MgSt compared with 1.4% of pure SS for 20 mg doses) when mixed for 0.5 h; SS dispersion improved further after 3.5 h of mixing. In addition to the action of the MgSt in coating SS particles, a greater understanding of the function of MgSt particles in acting as micro-carriers and in changing the mixture structure through incorporation into agglomerates has been achieved. The mechanistic understanding of improvement in drug deposition using MgSt will allow more directed strategies to be employed in designing powder formulations for inhalation. © 2009.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2.6.993
Title:Delivery of parathyroid hormone for the treatment of osteoporosis
Authors:P. Morley
Absract:Parathyroid hormone (PTH), along with its fragments and analogues, potently restores bone mass and biomechanical strength in animal models of osteoporosis, and reduces fractures by up to 65% in clinical trials in osteoporotic patients. Despite this demonstrated efficacy, patient acceptance and compliance with PTH is limited by the need for daily subcutaneous injections. The development of an equally efficacious, noninjectable form of PTH would significantly expand the present market. A challenge to the development of an alternative delivery system is the requirement for low-dose, daily, intermittent pulses of PTH to induce the anabolic actions on bone. In this review, recent basic and clinical efforts to deliver PTH by oral, buccal, sublingual, transdermal, nasal and pulmonary approaches will be addressed. © 2005 Ashley Publications.

pui:28500629
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)
Authors:B. Nair
Absract:Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) is a linear polymer of 1-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone monomers used as a binder, emulsion stabilizer, film former, hair fixative, and suspending agent-nonsurfactant. The molecular weight of the polymer ranges from 10,000 to 700,000. PVP K-30, with an average molecular weight of 40,000, is typically used in cosmetic formulations. The highest concentration reported to be used is 35%. There was no significant absorption of PVP K-30 given orally to rats, and the acute oral LD@sup_begin50@sup_end was > 100 g/kg for rats and guinea pigs. Neither toxic effects nor gross lesions were found in rats maintained for two years on a diet containing 10% PVP K-30. Short-term PVP inhalation studies produced mild lymphoid hyperplasia and fibroplasia in rats, but no inflammatory response. In animal studies, no evidence of significant ocular irritation, skin irritation, or skin sensitization was found at PVP-iodine solution concentrations of 10%. While PVP-iodine is not a cosmetic ingredient, these negative findings were considered to support the safety of the PVP component. Undiluted PVP K-30 was not a dermal irritant or sensitizer in clinical tests. No developmental toxicity was seen in vehicle controls where PVP was used as a vehicle for another agent. In certain assay systems, PVP was genotoxic, but was negative in the majority of studies. Orally administered PVP significantly decreased the rate of bladder tumors in mice exposed to bracken fern. Several studies tested the carcinogenicity of subcutaneous implants of particulate PVP in rats, mice, and rabbits. Although the majority of these studies conducted in rats were positive, tumors (sarcomas) were localized to the site of implantation. Based on the available data, it was concluded that PVP is safe as used in cosmetics.

doi:10.1177/109158189801700403
Title:Amended final report on the safety assessment of dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate
Authors:F.A. Andersen
Absract:Dioctyl Sodium Sulfosuccinate is an anionic surfactant used in a wide variety of cosmetic formulations. In September 1994, the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel evaluated the ingredient to be safe up to 0.42% in cosmetic formulations. Since that time, CIR received a petition, to re-open the safety assessment based on new clinical data. This amendment is a compilation of data contained in the original plus the data received in the petition; the latter appear at the end of this document. Studies conducted in the 1940's indicate that the oral LD@sub_begin50@sub_end in rats can be as low, as 1.9 g/kg. Short-term subchronic and chronic animal studies of the same vintage found little toxicity at levels around 1% of the LD@sub_begin50@sub_end level. Inhalation studies likewise had few, findings. Dioctyl Sodium Sulfosuccinate was minimally irritating to intact animal skin, but moderate to severely irritating to abraded skin. A concentration of 25% was a severe ocular irritant, but 10% produced little or no irritation. Mutagenesis tests were negative. A repeated insult patch test (RIPT) in 110 individuals produced no sensitization at a concentration of 5%. Erythema was noted during induction in a number of subjects at concentrations ≤5%. The CIR Expert Panel recognized that surfactants such as Dioctyl Sodium Sulfosuccinate would likely produce irritation under the conditions of a RIPT. The Panel cautioned that as the ingredient is a cumulative irritant, care should be taken to avoid irritancy in formulations intended for prolonged contact with the skin. The Panel concluded that Dioctyl Sodium Sulfosuccinate is safe for use in cosmetics.

doi:10.2217/nnm-2020-0077
Title:Properties of rapamycin solid lipid nanoparticles for lymphatic access through the lungs & part I: The effect of size
Authors:E. LandhL. M MoirP. BradburyD. TrainiP. M YoungH.X. Ong
Absract:Background: Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is characterized by growth of smooth muscle-like cells in the lungs that spread to other organs via lymphatic vessels. Current oral rapamycin treatment is limited by low bioavailability of approximately 15%. Aim: The effect of inhaled rapamycin solid lipid nanoparticles (Rapa-SLNs) size on its penetration through the lymphatics. Method: Three Rapa-SLN formulations (200-1000 nm) were produced and assessed for particle characteristics and further for toxicity and performance in vitro. Results: Rapa-SLNs of 200 nm inhibited proliferation in TSC2-negative mouse embryonic fibroblast cells and penetrated the respiratory epithelium and lymphatic endothelium significantly faster compared with free rapamycin and larger Rapa-SLNs. Conclusion: Rapa-SLN approximately 200 nm allows efficient entry of rapamycin into the lymphatic system and is therefore a promising treatment for LAM patients.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.07.008
Title:Formulation and nebulization of fluticasone propionate-loaded lipid nanocarriers
Authors:A. UmerskaC.R.A. MouzouviA. BigotP. Saulnier
Absract:Inhaled fluticasone propionate (FP) is often prescribed as a first-line therapy for the effective management of pulmonary diseases such as asthma. As nanocarriers offer many advantages over other drug delivery systems, this study investigated the suitability of lipid nanocapsules (LNCs) as a carrier for fluticasone propionate, examining the drug-related factors that should be considered in the formulation design and the behaviour of LNCs with different compositions and properties suspended within aerosol droplets under the relatively hostile conditions of nebulization. By adjusting the formulation conditions, particularly the nanocarrier composition, FP was efficiently encapsulated within the LNCs with a yield of up to 97%, and a concentration comparable to commercially available preparations was achieved. Moreover, testing the solubility of the drug in oil and water and determining the oil/water partition coefficient proved to be useful when assessing the encapsulation of the FP in the LNC formulation. Nebulization did not cause the FP to leak from the formulation, and no phase separation was observed after nebulization. LNCs with a diameter of 100 nm containing a smaller amount of surfactant and a larger amount of oil provided a better FP-loading capacity and better stability during nebulization than 30 or 60 nm LNCs.

doi:10.1517/14712598.4.1.23
Title:Dry powder inhalers for optimal drug delivery
Authors:S.P. Newman
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) have been available for delivering drugs to the lungs for over 30 years. In the last decade there has been a big increase in DPI development, resulting partly from recognised limitations in other types of inhaler device. Many companies are developing DPIs for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) therapy, and there is increasing recognition of the potential role of DPI systems for other therapies, such as inhaled antibiotics and peptides/proteins. Optimised drug delivery may be achieved not only by improvements to devices, but also via more sophisticated formulations that disperse easily in the inhaled air-stream and which may often be delivered by relatively simple inhaler devices. DPIs could become the device category of choice for a wide range of inhaled therapies, involving both local and systemic drug delivery.

doi:10.1016/S0731-7085(98)00017-X
Title:The separation of ipratropium bromide and its related compounds
Authors:P.J. SimmsR.W. TowneC.S. GrossR.E. Miller
Absract:Ipratropium bromide, the active component in ipratropium bromide metered dose inhalers (MDI), is used as a bronchodilator for the maintenance and treatment of bronchospasms associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The separation of ipratropium bromide, tropic acid, N- isopropyl-nor-atropine (NINA), 8-s ipratropium bromide, apo-ipratropium bromide and the excipients found in the formulation is important for analyzing raw materials and stability samples. We now report a reversed- phase HPLC method that can be used for separating ipratropium bromide and its related compounds, using an acetonitrile/potassium phosphate buffer (100 mM, pH 4.0) gradient mobile phase. Previous methods used for separating ipratropium bromide from its related compounds involved reversed-phase ion- pairing HPLC with UV detection. These methods exhibited less reproducibility, less ruggedness and required a high flow rate. The reported method is linear from 10 to 1000 μg ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end with a limit of detection of 60 ng ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end. In addition, analysis of samples subjected to accelerated stability conditions showed that all degradants are resolved from the active component, resulting in a stability-indicating assay. This assay also saved mobile phase and eliminated problems associated with ion-pairing reagents.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.1538
Title:Physicochemical and Pharmacokinetic Evaluation of Spray-Dried Coformulation of Salvia miltiorrhiza Polyphenolic Acid and L-Leucine with Improved Bioavailability
Authors:P. LuY. XingH. PengZ. LiuQ.T. ZhouZ. XueZ. MaD. KebebeB. ZhangH. Liu
Absract:Background: Salvia miltiorrhiza polyphenolic acid (SMPA) is effective in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and currently it is administered orally or intravenously. However, SMPA is poorly absorbed orally and quickly eliminated in vivo. A long-term frequent intravenous administration leads to poor patient compliance. Therefore, it is urgently demanded to find a new alternative route of noninjection drug delivery system for SMPA. Methods: Two dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations of spray-dried SMPA formulation (P1) and spray-dried SMPA-L-leucine formulation (P2) were prepared by spray drying method and their physicochemical properties were assessed by thermogravimetric analysis, X-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, particle size distribution analysis, and in vitro aerodynamic analysis. Moreover, In vitro cytotoxicity of SMPA and P2 was conducted with NR8383 cells. In vivo pharmacokinetics were carried out by Penn-Century endotracheal intubation technique to deliver P2 to the lungs of rats. Results and Conclusions: The moisture content of P1 and P2 were 5.81% ± 0.005%, and 4.08% ± 0.002%, respectively. P1 and P2 were in an amorphous state. Moreover, P1 had slightly corrugated surfaces, whereas P2 exhibited severely corrugated surfaces with invagination due to the presence of L-leucine. In addition, there were more hollow particles with smooth surface in P1 than that in P2. Compared with P1, P2 has shown optimal physical particle size and aerosolization behavior with D (v, 50) of 2.64 ± 0.01 μm and fine particle fraction of 37.55% ± 2.63%. The findings of in vitro cytotoxicity showed that P2 did not inhibit cell viability and could be safe for pulmonary administration. The absolute bioavailability of salvianolic acid B (Sal B) for pulmonary administration was 19.15% ± 7.44%, which is significantly higher than the oral bioavailability of Sal B (<5.56%). In this study, we have shown the feasibleness of pulmonary administration of SMPA in the form of DPIs for systemic delivery to treat cardiovascular diseases.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2018.06.005
Title:Repurposing of statins via inhalation to treat lung inflammatory conditions
Authors:P. BradburyD. TrainiA.J. AmmitP.M. YoungH.X. Ong
Absract:Despite many therapeutic advancements over the past decade, the continued rise in chronic inflammatory lung diseases incidence has driven the need to identify and develop new therapeutic strategies, with superior efficacy to treat these diseases. Statins are one class of drug that could potentially be repurposed as an alternative treatment for chronic lung diseases. They are currently used to treat hypercholesterolemia by inhibiting the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, that catalyses the rate limiting step in the mevalonate biosynthesis pathway, a key intermediate in cholesterol metabolism. Recent research has identified statins to have other protective pleiotropic properties including anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, muco-inhibitory effects that may be beneficial for the treatment of chronic inflammatory lung diseases. However, clinical studies have yielded conflicting results. This review will summarise some of the current evidences for statins pleiotropic effects that could be applied for the treatment of chronic inflammatory lung diseases, their mechanisms of actions, and the potential to repurpose statins as an inhaled therapy, including a detailed discussion on their different physical-chemical properties and how these characteristics could ultimately affect treatment efficacies. The repurposing of statins from conventional anti-cholesterol oral therapy to inhaled anti-inflammatory formulation is promising, as it provides direct delivery to the airways, reduced risk of side effects, increased bioavailability and tailored physical-chemical properties for enhanced efficacy.

doi:10.1002/1099-0496(200008)30:2<177::AID-PPUL16>3.0.CO;2-E
Title:Role of leukotriene receptor antagonist in pediatric asthma
Authors:J.B.M. Van WoenselJ.L.L. KimpenA.B. SprikkelmanA. OuwehandW.M.C. Van Aalderen
Absract:During the past decade, the inflammatory mechanisms that result in the clinical syndrome we call asthma have been emphasized in research, publications, and the various asthma management guidelines. This information clearly emphasizes the treatment of asthma with maintenance controller therapies early after the onset of symptoms in all but the very mildest of patients. Until the advent of the leukotriene receptor antagonists, nearly all of these maintenance therapies needed to be administered by inhalation through a variety of devices and spacers. Inhalation of medication was necessary to either increase the amount of drug reaching the airways or to increase the therapeutic index of drugs such as corticosteroids. Even under the best circumstances, this route of administration is difficult and expensive for many parents whose children have asthma. Now that oral controller therapies (leukotriene receptor antagonists) are available for children, their role in clinical practice needs to be examined. The latest asthma management guidelines classify asthma into four groups of severity, and base treatment recommendations on the intensity of symptoms, need for rescue medications, and pulmonary function as measured by peak expiratory flow and forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end). The categories of mild intermittent, mild persistent, moderate persistent, and severe asthma in children will be addressed in this presentation by reviewing the available data on the use of the leukotriene receptor antagonist montelukast in children. Mild intermittent asthma can be typified by exercise-induced asthma, a common pediatric condition. In this often troublesome condition, montelukast demonstrated effectiveness at the end of a once a day dose by blocking the effects of this naturally occurring challenge. Drug regulatory approval of a new drug also includes patients with more regular symptoms who are usually classified as having persistent or moderate asthma. In these montelukast pediatric studies, approximately 40% of patients were already taking inhaled corticosteroids. Patients had improvements in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, symptoms, and rescue medication use, clearly showing an effect with once a day dosing. Pediatric data in severe asthma patients are more limited, but in such patients a therapeutic trial of montelukast would seem preferable to using systemic corticosteroids or increasing inhaled steroids to a level where adverse effects have an increasing potential of occurring. Montelukast has been available in the United States since March 1998 and has received excellent acceptance by physicians, parents, and patients. The 5-mg chewable tablet administered once a day in the evening in children aged 6-14 years apparently fills a previously unmet need in the treatment of pediatric asthma. (C) 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.05.046
Title:TPP-dendrimer nanocarriers for siRNA delivery to the pulmonary epithelium and their dry powder and metered-dose inhaler formulations
Authors:E. BielskiQ. ZhongH. MirzaM. BrownA. MollaT. CarvajalS.R.P. da Rocha
Absract:The regulation of genes utilizing the RNA interference (RNAi) mechanism via the delivery of synthetic siRNA has great potential in the treatment of a variety of lung diseases. However, the delivery of siRNA to the lungs is challenging due to the poor bioavailability of siRNA when delivered intraveneously, and difficulty in formulating and maintaining the activity of free siRNA when delivered directly to the lungs using inhalation devices. The use of non-viral vectors such as cationic dendrimers can help enhance the stability of siRNA and its delivery to the cell cytosol. Therefore, in this work, we investigate the ability of a triphenylphosphonium (TPP) modified generation 4 poly(amidoamine) (PAMAM) dendrimer (G4NH@sub_begin2@sub_end-TPP) to enhance the in vitro transfection efficiency of siRNA in a model of the pulmonary epithelium and their aerosol formulations in pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) and dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Complexes of siRNA and G4NH@sub_begin2@sub_end-TPP were prepared with varying TPP densities and increasing N/P ratios. The complexation efficiency was modulated by the presence of the TPP on the dendrimer surface, allowing for a looser complexation compared to unmodified dendrimer as determined by gel electrophoresis and polyanion competition assay. An increase in TPP density and N/P ratio led to an increase in the in vitro gene knockdown of stably green fluorescent protein (eGFP) expressing lung alveolar epithelial (A549) cells. G4NH@sub_begin2@sub_end-12TPP dendriplexes (G4NH@sub_begin2@sub_end PAMAM dendrimers containing 12 TPP molecules on the surface complexed with siRNA) at N/P ratio 30 showed the highest in vitro gene knockdown efficiency. To assess the potential of TPP-dendriplexes for pulmonary use, we also developed micron particle technologies for both pMDIs and DPIs and determined their aerosol characteristics utilizing an Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). Mannitol microparticles encapsulating 12TPP-dendriplexes were shown to be effective in producing aerosols suitable for deep lung deposition for both pMDI formulations (fine particle fraction of 50–53%) and DPI formulations (fine particle fraction of 39%) with no impact on the in vitro gene knockdown efficiency of the siRNA. This work demonstrates the potential benefits of utilizing TPP-conjugated dendrimers in the formation of dendriplexes for siRNA delivery to the pulmonary epithelium and their aerosol formulation for local delivery to the lungs using portable inhalers.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119570
Title:Optimization of inhalable liposomal powder formulations and evaluation of their in vitro drug delivery behavior in Calu-3 human lung epithelial cells
Authors:S. YuH. YuanG. ChaiK. PengP. ZouX. LiJ. LiF. ZhouH.-K. ChanQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Inhalation therapy has advantages for the treatment of multidrug resistant bacterial lung infections with high drug concentrations at the infection sites in the airways and reduced systemic exposure. We have developed liposomal formulations for pulmonary delivery of synergistic ciprofloxacin (Cipro) and colistin (Col) as the potential candidate for treatment of lung infections caused by multidrug resistant Gram-negative bacteria. This study aims to: (1) further optimize the powder formulation by adding drying stabilizers (polyvinyl pyrrolidone or poloxamer) to protect the liposomes during spray-freeze-drying; (2) evaluate the transport and cellular uptake of drugs in a human lung epithelial Calu-3 cell model. The liposomal powder formulations were produced using the ultrasonic spray-freeze-drying technique. The optimal formulation (F5) used mannitol (8% w/v) and sucrose (2% w/v) as the internal lyoprotectants. Adding external lyoprotectants/aerosolization enhancers (i.e. 8% w/v mannitol, 2% w/v sucrose and 1%, w/w PVP 10) produced the superior rehydrated EE values of ciprofloxacin and colistin (50.2 ± 0.9% for Cipro and 37.8 ± 1.2% for Col) as well as satisfactory aerosol performance (FPF: 34.2 ± 0.8% for Cipro and 33.6 ± 0.9% for Col). The cytotoxicity study indicated that F5 with the colistin concentration at 50 μg/mL and ciprofloxacin at 200 μg/mL was not cytotoxic to human lung epithelial Calu-3 cells. The intracellular uptake of ciprofloxacin was concentration-dependent in Calu-3 cells and the uptake of A-B was more than that of B-A for all samples (p < 0.05). This study demonstrates that co-delivery of ciprofloxacin and colistin in a single liposome can lower the transport capability of both drugs across the Calu-3 cell monolayer and their accumulation in the cells. These findings indicate that co-loaded liposomal powder of ciprofloxacin and colistin is a promising potential treatment for respiratory infections caused by multidrug resistant Gram-negative bacteria.

pui:622967373
Title:Development and efficacy of a novel nebulized antibiotic formulation for the treatment of mycobacterium abscessus pulmonary infections
Authors:T. HofmannB. BanaschewskiM. HittingerC. LehrM. StapletonD. VermaD. OrdwayS. UferK. Stapleton
Absract:Background: The rate of nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients is rapidly increasing, from 5% of patients presenting with positive sputum cultures for NTM bacteria in 2000 to approximately 12% of CF patients as of 2015. NTM infections in CF patients may lead to decreased pulmonary function, severe necrotizing inflammation, and bronchiectasis. Despite the increasing prevalence of infections, antibiotic therapies are protracted and poorly effective. Current standard of care involves extended courses of multiple antibiotics via oral or intravenous administration, however these treatment regimens are hampered by high rates of drug toxicity and poor efficacy. The development of new therapeutics is desperately needed. Hypothesis: The administration of a novel inhaled, nebulized therapeutic, in conjunction with current treatment regimens, will improve patient outcomes and reduce the duration of therapy. Methods: QrumPharma has developed QRM-003, a novel formulation of an oral antibiotic for inhalation therapy of NTM infections. Efficacy of QRM-003 was investigated in a mouse model of NTM infection. SCID mice were infected with Mycobacterium abscessus via intratracheal administration. Two days following infection, animals were treated every other day for 8 days with a) saline (control), b) QRM-003 (via aerosolized administration), or c) active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) via systemic administration (oral gavage). Two days following the final treatment, animals were then euthanized, and tissues were harvested to determine bacterial recovery. Results: For the mouse M. abscessus infection model, the CFU recovered from lung, spleen and liver were as follows: QRM-003 (pulmonary aerosol) (2.25±0.15, 3.09±1.4, and 4.18±1.5), and API (oral gavage) (3.58±0.10, 3.63±0.60, and 4.79±0.10). QRM-003 treatment resulted in CFU lung, spleen and liver counts that were approximately 1.33±0.02, 0.54±0.01, and 0.61±0.10 log10 CFU/ml, respectively, lower than those in mice receiving the API by gavage alone. Conclusion: QrumPharma has developed QRM-003, a novel formulation for inhalation therapy of NTM infections in CF patients. QRM-003 demonstrated potent antimycobacterial activity in vivo, as administration significantly reduced bacterial recovery in an acute M. abscessus infection model. Future Directions: Future directions include the expansion of these in vivo infection models to investigate both chronic infections, as well as infections with Mycobacterium avium. Pharmacokinetic evaluations will be performed to quantify the tissue distribution of QRM-003 compared to conventional systemic administration of the API. Selection of a commercially available nebulizer device will allow for optimal therapeutic delivery in future clinical investigations.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2021.02.017
Title:Dry powder pharmaceutical biologics for inhalation therapy
Authors:R.Y.K. ChangM.Y.T. ChowD. KhanalD. ChenH.-K. Chan
Absract:Therapeutic biologics such as genes, peptides, proteins, virus and cells provide clinical benefits and are becoming increasingly important tools in respiratory medicine. Pulmonary delivery of therapeutic biologics enables the potential for safe and effective treatment option for respiratory diseases due to high bioavailability while minimizing absorption into the systemic circulation, reducing off-target toxicity to other organs. Development of inhalable powder formulation requires stabilization of complex biological materials, and each type of biologics may present unique challenges and require different formulation strategy combined with manufacture process to ensure biological and physical stabilities during production and over shelf-life. This review examines key formulation strategies for stabilizing proteins, nucleic acids, virus (bacteriophages) and bacterial cells in inhalable powders. It also covers characterization methods used to assess physicochemical properties and aerosol performance of the powders, biological activity and structural integrity of the biologics, and chemical analysis at the nanoscale. Furthermore, the review includes manufacture technologies which are based on lyophilization and spray-drying as they have been applied to manufacture Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved protein powders. In perspective, formulation and manufacture of inhalable powders for biologic are highly challenging but attainable. The key requirements are the stability of both the biologics and the powder, along with the powder dispersibility. The formulation to be developed depends on the manufacture process as it will subject the biologics to different stresses (temperature, mechanical and chemical) which could lead to degradation by different pathways. Stabilizing excipients coupled with the suitable choice of process can alleviate the stability issues of inhaled powders of biologics.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13010079
Title:Pulmonary targeting of inhalable moxifloxacin microspheres for effective management of tuberculosis
Authors:B. VishwaA. MoinD.V. GowdaS.M.D. RizviW.A.H. HegazyA.S. Abu LilaE.-S. KhafagyA.N. Allam
Absract:In the present study, the objective was to attain a localized lung delivery of an anti-tubercular fluoroquinolone, moxifloxacin (MXF), targeting the alveolar macrophages through a non-invasive pulmonary route using inhalable microspheres as a dry powder inhaler approach. MXF-loaded poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microspheres (MXF-PLGA-MSs) were fabricated by solvent evaporation technique and optimized by using a central composite statistical design. The morphology and particle size, as well as the flowability of the optimized microspheres, were char-acterized. In addition, the aerosolization performance of the optimized formula was inspected using an Andersen cascade impactor. Furthermore, in vivo fate following intrapulmonary administration of the optimized formula was evaluated. The optimized MXF-PLGA-MSs were spherical in shape with a particle size of 3.16 µm, drug loading of 21.98% and entrapment efficiency of 78.0%. The optimized formula showed a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 2.85 ± 1.04 µm with a favorable fine particle fraction of 72.77 ± 1.73%, suggesting that the powders were suitable for inhalation. Most importantly, in vivo studies revealed that optimized MXF-PLGA-MSs preferentially accumulated in lung tissue as manifested by a two-fold increase in the area under the curve AUC@sub_begin0–24h@sub_end, compared to plain drug. In addition, optimized MXF-PLGA-MS sustained drug residence in the lung for up to 24 h following inhalation, compared to plain drug. In conclusion, inhalable microspheres of MXF could be a promising therapeutic approach that might aid in the effective eradiation of tuberculosis along with improving patient adherence to the treatment.

doi:10.1378/chest.116.5.1304
Title:A controlled trial of chlorofluorocarbon-free triamcinolone acetonide inhalation aerosol in the treatment of adult patients with persistent asthma
Authors:M. WelchD. BernsteinG. GrossR.E. KaneD. BanerjiD. AaronsonH. OffenbergD. AuerbachJ. OppenheimerT. BellP. PetroffG. BenschF. PiconeW. BergerS. PollardD. BernsteinG. RaphaelJ. CaldwellR.Robert RhodesR. CohenR. RosenthalL. CosmoE. SchenkelF. Demarco Jr.N. SegallT. EdwardsG. SettipaneS. FinemanW. SilversM. GoldsteinT. SimG. GrossW. SokolD. HenryS. SpectorR. JacobsP. SteinbergM. KraemerW. StrickerC. LaForceM.Michael WeinB. MartinM. WelchM. Noonan
Absract:Study objective: To compare the dose response, efficacy, and safety of inhaled triamcinolone acetonide (TAA) with a hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellant (75 μg/puff), TAA with a chlorofluorocarbon propellant (dichlorodifluoromethane [P-12]; 75 μg/puff), and placebo in adult patients with persistent asthma. Design: Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of 514 adult patients with persistent asthma. Interventions and measurements: Patients received 8 weeks of treatment with 150, 300, or 600 μg/d of TAA HFA, the same doses of TAA P- 12, or placebo following a 5- to 21-day baseline period. Efficacy was assessed by spirometry, and by daily recordings of albuterol use, peak expiratory flow (PEF), asthma symptom ratings, and nighttime awakenings throughout the study. Results: Linear trend analysis showed that both formulations of TAA at all doses produced statistically significant improvements compared with placebo in spirometry, asthma symptom scores, albuterol use, and PEF. Significant improvement was seen as early as 24 h for morning PEF and as early as 1 week for FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end (TAA HFA, 600 μg/d; TAA P-12, 300 and 600 μg/d) and albuterol use (all doses of both formulations). The P- 12 and HFA formulations had comparable efficacy. A dose response showing greater improvement with higher doses was evident for the majority of parameters for both formulations. The incidences of adverse events were similar across all treatment groups with no dose-related trends. Conclusion: HFA and P-12 formulations of TAA inhalation aerosol were therapeutically equivalent and showed comparable safety and dose-related efficacy in the treatment of patients with persistent asthma.

doi:10.1016/S0011-393X(02)80041-8
Title:The effect of ipratropium bromide on intraocular pressure in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: An open-label study
Authors:M. PolatliV. DayanirO. PolatliS.B. ÖzkanO. Çildag
Absract:Background: After smoking cessation, bronchodilation with anticholinergics and beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists is the keystone of pharmacologic therapy for symptomatic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). For patients who fail to get relief from a drug delivered via a metered-dose inhaler (MDI) plus spacer, or for acute exacerbations in patients who are unable to use an MDI, a nebulized solution (NS) usually is preferred. Although ipratropium bromide (IB) has a low incidence of adverse events, anticholinergic drugs are known to produce side effects such as urinary retention, constipation, drying of secretions, and precipitation of glaucoma. Objective: In this open-label study, we aimed to assess the acute effects of IB on intraocular pressure (IOP) and tolerability of administration of IB by MDI and NS in patients with COPD and baseline values of IOP that were within normal limits. Methods: Eligible patients were aged >40 years and had a cigarette smoking history of >20 pack-years (ie, packs/d x years of smoking), a clinical history of COPD, and a ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1 second to slow vital capacity (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end/VC) <89% predicted value. After baseline pulmonary function testing (PFT), IOP measurements by Goldmann applanation tonometry were performed. PFT measurements were repeated at 15 and 120 minutes after drug inhalation, and IOP measurements were repeated 120 minutes after drug inhalation. Doses were administered on 3 consecutive mornings: placebo on day 1, MDI IB 40 μg on day 2, and NS IB 250 μg on day 3. Results: Measurements are expressed as mean ± SD. Twenty-one stable patients with COPD (all men; mean age, 60.95 ± 7.90 years; mean smoking history, 47.24 ± 17.62 pack-years) were selected from a university hospital outpatient population. On MDI and NS test days (days 2 and 3), respectively, mean baseline FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end measurements were 1.30 ± 0.62 L (42.74% ± 20.11% predicted value) and 1.23 ± 0.58 L (41.16% ± 18.51% predicted value); mean baseline IOPs for the MDI group were 14.24 ± 2.61 mm Hg and 14.00 ± 2.51 mm Hg (right and left eyes, respectively) and for the NS group were 14.57 ± 2.52 mm Hg and 14.00 ± 2.63 mm Hg (right and left eyes, respectively). Although improvements in forced VC, FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, and maximal mid-expiratory flow rate were significant at 15 and 120 minutes for both delivery methods (P < 0.01 for both delivery methods at both times), no significant increase in IOP was found. Conclusion: The single-dose administration of MDI and NS formulations of IB at doses producing bronchodilation had no significant effect on IOP in this study population.

doi:10.1208/s12249-020-01720-1
Title:Addressing the Need for Controls on Particle Bounce and Re-entrainment in the Cascade Impactor and for the Mitigation of Electrostatic Charge for Aerodynamic Particle Size Assessment of Orally Inhaled Products: an Assessment by the International Consortium on Regulation and Science (IPAC-RS)
Authors:W. DoubS. SteinJ. MitchellA.P. Goodey
Absract:Multi-stage cascade impactors (CI) are accepted for the determination of metrics of the drug mass aerodynamic particle size distributions (APSD) of aerosols emitted from orally inhaled products (OIPs). This is particularly important for products where the drug to excipient ratio or particle density may not be the same in each aerodynamic size fraction; examples of such products are carrier-containing dry powder inhalers (DPIs) and suspension pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs). CI measurements have been used as the “gold standard” for acceptance of alternative methods of APSD assessment, such as laser diffraction for nebulized solutions. Although these apparatus are labor-intensive, they are accepted in regulatory submissions and quality control assessments because the mass of active pharmaceutical ingredient(s) in the aerosol can be quantified by chemical assay and measured particle size is based on the aerodynamic diameter scale that is predictive of deposition in the respiratory tract. Two of the most important factors that modify the ideal operation of an impactor are “particle bounce,” that is often accompanied by re-entrainment in the air flow passing the stage of interest, and electrostatic charge acquired by the particles during the preparation and aerosolization of the formulation when the inhaler is actuated. This article reviews how both factors can lead to biased APSD measurements, focusing on measurements involving pMDIs and DPIs, where these sources of error are most likely to be encountered. Recommendations are provided for the mitigation of both factors to assist the practitioner of these measurements.

pui:22247849
Title:Techniques for drug delivery to the airways, and the assessment of lung function in animal models
Authors:D. RaeburnS.L. UnderwoodM.E. Villamil
Absract:A common approach to understanding the mechanisms underlying clinical asthma and in new drug development is to mimic the disease in animal models. When developing animal models of pulmonary diseases, such as asthma, the experimentally induced disease may be characterized in terms of pathophysiological changes induced (e.g., inflammation, smooth muscle contraction) or by the indices of lung function that are effected by such changes. Similarly, the effects of drugs can be assessed in terms of the reversal of disease- or mediator-induced changes in lung function. Small animals, such as the guinea pig and rat, are commonly used for the assessment of lung function in models of pulmonary diseases, such as asthma, and to evaluate the effects of drugs. A variety of techniques, differing in their level of sophistication, has been developed to measure parameters of lung function in small laboratory animals. Simple techniques involve the visual assessment of the response of a conscious animal to bronchoconstriction induced by an inhaled spasmogen or antigen. This technique is rapid but gives results that are difficult to interpret in physiological terms. Bronchospasm can be better assessed in anesthetized, mechanically ventilated animals by recording bronchial tone as changes in either 1) ventilation circuit pressure or 2) air overflow as the lungs are inflated. These techniques are widely used but because they require surgical intervention they are not suited to long-term or repeat studies. In addition, they give only a limited indication of the physiological changes that affect airway caliber. To improve the models available, researchers have subsequently developed techniques that use the same physiological principles as some of the tests applied to the assessment of lung function in humans. These techniques allow the measurement of parameters of respiratory mechanics, such as lung compliance and airway resistance, that determine the relationship between pulmonary pressure changes and air flow into and out of the lungs. Continued development has resulted in models that use nonsurgical plethysmographic techniques. These allow the long-term or repeated measurement of lung function in conscious animals under minimal restraint. In the treatment of asthma, inhalation is the preferred route of administration of a drug as it allows rapid drug delivery to the site of action. Systemic effects are reduced, and the therapeutic dose is minimized. Drugs are generally inhaled as either nebulized liquids or dry-powder formulations. Because drug inhalation requires patient cooperation, techniques have been modified to allow drug delivery to the airways of experimental animals. Nebulizers or dry-powder generators can be used to deliver drugs either directly to the airways of anesthetized, tracheostomized animals or into an exposure chamber. If required, then some techniques allow lung function changes to be simultaneously measured. Alternatively, drugs can be administered by intratracheal instillation to the lungs of anesthetized animals. The pharmacological effects of anti-asthma drugs are partly dependent on the dose delivered to the lungs and the distribution in the airways. A variety of noninvasive and invasive techniques are used to measure drug deposition in experimental animals. Noninvasive methods allow the time course of distribution, absorption, and elimination to be followed. This review, therefore, discusses the various techniques most commonly used to deliver drugs to the airways of animals and to assess drug deposition, and the methods used to assess lung function in these models.

doi:10.1016/j.cct.2011.01.009
Title:An analysis of the impact of FDA's guidelines for addressing cardiovascular risk of drugs for type 2 diabetes on clinical development
Authors:C. ViereckP. Boudes
Absract:We examined the impact of FDA's 2008 guidelines for addressing cardiovascular risks of new therapies for type 2 diabetes on clinical trials. We focused on the new class of incretin-modulating drugs, exenatide, sitagliptin, saxagliptin and liraglutide, which were approved in 2005-2010. We contrasted these findings with those from 2 different groups: 1. diabetes drugs approved in the same timeframe but with a non-incretin mechanism of action (colesevelam HCl and bromocriptine mesylate) and 2. diabetes drugs with NDAs delayed and not yet approved within the same time frame (vildagliptin, alogliptin, insulin inhalation powder, and exenatide long acting release). The new guidelines have had an important impact on clinical development. Review time has increased over 2-fold. The increase is seen even if a drug with the same mechanism of action has been already approved. Whereas exenatide (approved in 2005) required 10. months of regulatory review, the approval of liraglutide in 2010 required more than twice as long (21. months). In contrast, the marketing authorization of liraglutide in the EU required 14. months. Additionally, the manufacturer of vildagliptin announced in June 2008, 30. months after the NDA was filed, that a re-submission to meet FDA's demands was not planned. The drug however received marketing authorization in the EU in 2007. The number of randomized patients and patient-years in NDAs increased more than 2.5 and 4 fold, respectively since the guidelines. The significant cost increases and negative publicity because of rare adverse reactions will adversely affect future clinical research in type 2 diabetes and not address its burgeoning health care impact. © 2011 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1002/adhm.202001650
Title:siRNA Therapeutics against Respiratory Viral Infections—What Have We Learned for Potential COVID-19 Therapies?
Authors:A. MehtaT. MichlerO.M. Merkel
Absract:Acute viral respiratory tract infections (AVRIs) are a major burden on human health and global economy and amongst the top five causes of death worldwide resulting in an estimated 3.9 million lives lost every year. In addition, new emerging respiratory viruses regularly cause outbreaks such as SARS-CoV-1 in 2003, the "Swine flu" in 2009, or most importantly the ongoing SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, which intensely impact global health, social life, and economy. Despite the prevalence of AVRIs and an urgent need, no vaccines—except for influenza—or effective treatments were available at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the innate RNAi pathway offers the ability to develop nucleic acid-based antiviral drugs. siRNA sequences against conserved, essential regions of the viral genome can prevent viral replication. In addition, viral infection can be averted prophylactically by silencing host genes essential for host–viral interactions. Unfortunately, delivering siRNAs to their target cells and intracellular site of action remains the principle hurdle toward their therapeutic use. Currently, siRNA formulations and chemical modifications are evaluated for their delivery. This progress report discusses the selection of antiviral siRNA sequences, delivery techniques to the infection sites, and provides an overview of antiviral siRNAs against respiratory viruses.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11070352
Title:Inhaled antibiotics for mycobacterial lung disease
Authors:B. BanaschewskiT. Hofmann
Absract:Mycobacterial lung diseases are an increasing global health concern. Tuberculosis and nontuberculous mycobacteria differ in disease severity, epidemiology, and treatment strategies, but there are also a number of similarities. Pathophysiology and disease progression appear to be relatively similar between these two clinical diagnoses, and as a result these difficult to treat pulmonary infections often require similarly extensive treatment durations of multiple systemic drugs. In an effort to improve treatment outcomes for all mycobacterial lung diseases, a significant body of research has investigated the use of inhaled antibiotics. This review discusses previous research into inhaled development programs, as well as ongoing research of inhaled therapies for both nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease, and tuberculosis. Due to the similarities between the causative agents, this review will also discuss the potential cross-fertilization of development programs between these similar-yet-different diseases. Finally, we will discuss some of the perceived difficulties in developing a clinically utilized inhaled antibiotic for mycobacterial diseases, and potential arguments in favor of the approach.

doi:10.3109/02652048.2012.655428
Title:Inhalation of alendronate nanoparticles as dry powder inhaler for the treatment of osteoporosis
Authors:S. SultanaS. TalegaonkarR. AliG. MittalF.J. AhmadA. Bhatnagar
Absract:The precipitation technique was used to prepare non-polymeric alendronate nanoparticles. The influence of various formulation parameters on the average particle size was investigated and the effect of various stabilizers (PVA, tween, chitosan, alginate, PEG, HPMC, poloxomers) was evaluated. The selection of surfactant was a key factor to produce particles with desired properties. Poloxomer F68 was found best in achieving the minimum particle size and providing physical stability to the drug. On basis of preliminary trials, a central composite design was employed to study the effect of independent variables, drug concentration (X1), antisolvent volume (X2), stirring speed (X3), and stabilizer concentration (X4) on the average particle size. The drug and stabilizer concentrations exhibited a more significant effect on a dependent variable. The particle size varied from 62 to 803.3nm depending upon the significant terms. The validation of optimization study, performed using six confirmatory runs, indicated very high degree of prognostic ability of response surface methodology, with mean percentage error (±SD) as -2.32±2.47. The minimum particle size (44.11nm) was predicted at 10mg/ml drug concentration, 20ml antisolvent volume, 925rpm stirring speed, and 8.5 stabilizer concentration with 98.16 experimental validity. Respirable fraction for optimized nanosized alendronate (43.85±0.52) was significantly higher when compared with commercial alendronate (17.6±0.32). Mass median aerodynamic diameter of designed particles was 3.45m with geometric standard deviation of 2.10. © 2012 Informa UK Ltd All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2011.11.005
Title:Advanced microscopy techniques to assess solid-state properties of inhalation medicines
Authors:J. ShurR. Price
Absract:Efficient control and characterisation of the physico-chemical properties of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and excipients for orally inhaled drug products (OIDPs) are critical to successful product development. Control and reduction of risk require the introduction of a material science based approach to product development and the use of advanced analytical tools in understanding how the solid-state properties of the input materials influence structure and product functionality. The key issues to be addressed, at a microscopic scale, are understanding how the critical quality attributes of input materials influence surface, interfacial and particulate interactions within OIDPs. This review offers an in-depth discussion on the use of advanced microscopy techniques in characterising of the solid-state properties of particulate materials for OIDPs. The review covers the fundamental principles of the techniques, instrumentation types, data interpretation and specific applications in relation to the product development of OIDPs. © 2011.

doi:10.1002/jps.22824
Title:Dry powder inhaler device influence on carrier particle performance
Authors:M.J. DonovanS.H. KimV. RamanH.D. Smyth
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are distinguished from one another by their unique device geometries, reflecting their distinct drug detachment mechanisms, which can be broadly classified into either aerodynamic or mechanical-based detachment forces. Accordingly, powder particles experience different aerodynamic and mechanical forces depending on the inhaler. However, the influence of carrier particle physical properties on the performance of DPIs with different dispersion mechanisms remains largely unexplored. Carrier particle trajectories through two commercial DPIs were modeled with computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and the results were compared with in vitro aerosol studies to assess the role of carrier particle size and shape on inhaler performance. Two percent (w/w) binary blends of budesonide with anhydrous and granulated lactose carriers ranging up to 300 μm were dispersed from both an Aerolizer® and Handihaler® through a cascade impactor at 60 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. For the simulations, carrier particles were modeled as spherical monodisperse populations with small (32 μm), medium (108 μm), and large (275 μm) particle diameters. CFD simulations revealed the average number of carrier particle-inhaler collisions increased with carrier particle size (2.3-4.0) in the Aerolizer®, reflecting the improved performance observed in vitro. Collisions within the Handihaler®, in contrast, were less frequent and generally independent of carrier particle size. The results demonstrate that the aerodynamic behavior of carrier particles varies markedly with both their physical properties and the inhalation device, significantly influencing the performance of a dry powder inhaler formulation. © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1002/jps.22503
Title:Particle aerosolisation and break-up in dry powder inhalers: Evaluation and modelling of impaction effects for agglomerated systems
Authors:W. WongD.F. FletcherD. TrainiH.-K. ChanJ. CrapperP.M. Young
Absract:This study utilised a combination of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and standardised entrainment tubes to investigate the influence of impaction on the break-up and aerosol performance of a model inhalation formulation. A series of entrainment tubes, with different impaction plate angles were designed in silico and the flow characteristics, and particle tracks, were simulated using CFD. The apparatuses were constructed using three-dimensional printing. The deposition and aerosol performance of a model agglomerate system (496.3-789.2 μm agglomerates containing 3.91 μm median diameter mannitol particles) were evaluated by chemical analysis and laser diffraction, respectively. Analysis of the mannitol recovery from the assembly and CFD simulations indicated that mass deposition on the plate was dependent on the impactor angle (45°-90°) but independent of the airflow rate (60-140 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end). In comparison, wall losses, perpendicular to the impactor plate were dependent on both the impactor angle and flow rate. Analysis of the particle size distribution exiting the impactor assembly suggested mannitol aerosolisation to be independent of impactor angle but dependent on the air velocity directly above the impactor plate. It is proposed that particle-wall impaction results in initial agglomerate fragmentation followed by reentrainment in the airstream above the impaction plate. Such observations have significant implications in the design of dry powder inhaler devices. © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1002/jps.20618
Title:Predicting the behavior of novel sugar carriers for dry powder inhaler formulations via the use of a cohesive-adhesive force balance approach
Authors:J.C. HootonM.D. JonesR. Price
Absract:The aim of this work was to utilize the recently developed cohesive-adhesive balance (CAB) technique for analyzing quantitative AFM measurements to compare the relative forces of interaction of micronized salbutamol sulfate particles and a selection of specifically grown sugar substrates (β cyclodextrin, lactose, raffinose, trehalose and xylitol). The interfacial behavior was subsequently related to the in-vitro delivery performance of these sugars as carrier particles in dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations. The CAB analysis indicated that the rank order of adhesion between salbutamol sulfate and the sugars was β cyclodextrin < lactose < trehalose < raffinose < xylitol. The β cyclodextrin was the only substrate with which salbutamol sulfate demonstrated a greater cohesive behavior. All other sugars exhibited an adhesive dominance. In-vitro deposition performance of the salbutamol sulfate based carrier DPI formulations showed that the rank order of the fine particle fraction (FPF) was β cyclodextrin > lactose > raffinose > trehalose > xylitol. A linear correlation (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.9572) was observed between the FPF and cohesive-adhesive ratios of the AFM force measurements. The observed link between CAB analysis of the interactive forces and in-vitro performance of carrier based formulations suggested a fundamental understanding of the relative balance of the various forces of interaction within a dry powder formulation may provide a critical insight into the behavior of these formulations. © 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1177/1091581820977334
Title:A 6-month inhalation toxicology study in APOE-/-mice demonstrates substantially lower effects of e-vapor aerosols compared with cigarette smoke in the respiratory tract
Authors:J. SzostakE.T. WongB. TitzK.M. LeeA. KumarY. XiangA. KuczajP. VanscheeuwijckM.C. PeitschJ. Hoeng
Absract:Cigarette smoke (CS) is the major cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Considerable attention has been given to the reduced harm potential of e-vapor products. We investigated the effects of exposure to e-vapor aerosols (nicotine and flavor) and mainstream CS on emphysematous changes, lung function, and molecular alterations on the respiratory tract of Apoe-/-mice. Mice (n = 10-12) were exposed daily (5 d/wk) for 6 months to fresh air (sham) or aerosols from 3 different e-vapor formulations-(1) carrier (propylene glycol and vegetable glycerol), (2) base (carrier and nicotine), or (3) test (base and flavors)-or to CS from 3R4F reference cigarettes. Aerosol concentrations in CS and base or test aerosols were matched at 35-mg nicotine/L. Exposure to CS impaired lung function and caused marked lung inflammation and emphysematous changes. Dysregulation of the lung transcriptome, lipidome, and proteome was also observed in response to CS exposure. These effects (functional, structural, and biochemical responses) were substantially reduced in response to all e-vapor aerosol exposures. In comparison to sham, the e-vapor aerosol exposures caused only a slight increase in lung inflammation and nasal olfactory epithelium irritation under the test conditions. In conclusion, the study demonstrated that, in comparison to CS, e-vapor aerosols demonstrated substantially lower biological responses in the respiratory tract.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:A lung-sim investigation: The influence of formulation on the systemic exposure of beclomethasone dipropionate in rat
Authors:R. FranssonW. TerakosolphanP. AkhuemokhanD. LewisS. KierB. ForbesU. Tehler
Absract:Purpose: Formulation work is crucial in the development process of new drugs for inhalation. A full understanding of how the formulation, with its excipients, behaves in vivo and impacts the bioavailability of a drug candidate is important. Both in vitro and in vivo characterization are vital activities to gain this knowledge. Methods: In this study a physiologically based biopharmaceutical prediction tool for inhaled products called Lung-Sim was used to predict systemic exposure of two different formulations of beclomethasone dipropionate (with or without glycerol) when administered to rats. Before exploring whether the dissolution-retarding effects of glycerol observed in vitro translate to pharmacokinetic differences in an in vivo setting, the Lung-Sim simulations were conducted to help design the study to optimize the read out. Lung-Sim was informed of the general physiochemical properties of BDP as well as the formulation specific properties. Results: The predictions indicated that early time samplings were critical to be able to capture the impact of glycerol on BDP pharmacokinetics. Data from a small in vivo pilot study concorded with these findings. Conclusion: In silico models, such as Lung-Sim, are powerful research tools supporting the drug development of inhaled medicines. As a complement to traditional in vitro and in vivo characterization, the physiologically based biopharmaceutical prediction tools expand the drug development tool box and can save time, money and reduce the use of laboratory animals.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:How to successfully spray dry biopharmaceuticals targeting the lungs: A novel integrated methodology
Authors:D.A. FernandesJ. PereiraP. LeandroM.L. CorvoE. Costa
Absract:One of the main challenges when developing a spray dried biopharmaceutical formulation for Dry Powder Inhalers is the generation of a stable aerosol able to reach the lungs while preserving the integrity of the biopharmaceutical, rendering it safe and effective. Hence, an appropriate excipient selection based on spray drying (SD) process development and biopharmaceutical stabilization is required to meet this balance. Herein, an integrated methodology is presented to expedite the selection of the best composite excipient matrix to formulate 3 inhalable model enzymes of increasing size and 3D structure complexity: Superoxide Dismutase, Glucose Oxidase and Catalase. Based on inhalation suitability, spray drying process development precedence and biopharmaceutical stabilization, 4 nonreducing sugars and 4 amino acids were screened using High Throughput Differential Scanning Fluorimetry (DSF). The sugar and amino acid showcasing an increased stabilizing effect by DSF for each enzyme, were spray dried together using fixed process conditions at 3 different ratios, to assess which formulation would display the best aerodynamic performance. The selected formulations were positively validated since all 3 enzymes had very good in vitro performance while keeping their 3D structure after SD. Thus, the present integrated methodology proved to be successful, allowing the narrow down of 48 formulations to only 1 for each enzyme, within one day, while requiring μg range of sample amount.

doi:10.1007/s11095-008-9708-y
Title:Influence of stabilizers on the physicochemical characteristics of inhaled insulin powders produced by supercritical antisolvent process
Authors:Y.H. KimC. SioutasK.S. Shing
Absract:Purpose. To examine the effect of stabilizers on aerosol physicochemical characteristics of inhaled insulin particles produced using a supercritical fluid technology. Purpose. Insulin with stabilizers such as mannitol and trehalose was micronized by aerosol solvent extraction system (ASES). The supercritically-micronized insulin particles were characterized for size, shape, aerosol behavior, crystallinity and secondary structure. Results. Experimental results indicated that when insulin was incorporated with the most commonly used stabilizer mannitol (insulin/mannitol: 15/85 wt.%, designated IM), the particles formed were irregular and needle-shaped and had a tendency to agglomerate. With the incorporation of a second stabilizer trehalose (insulin/mannitol/trehalose: 15/70/15 wt.%, designated IMT), the particles were relatively uniform, more spherical, less cohesive, and less agglomerated in an air flow, when compared to IM particles. The mass median aerodynamic diameter of the IMT particles was 2.32 μm which is suitable for use in inhalation therapy. In vitro deposition test using micro-orifice uniform deposit impactor showed 69±7 wt.% of the IMT particles was deposited in stage 3, 4, 5 and 6 while 41±15 wt.% of the IM particles was deposited in the same stages. In terms of insulin stability, secondary structures of insulin particles were not adversely affected by the ASES processing studied here. Conclusions. When properly formulated (as in IMT particles), ASES process can produce particles with appropriate size and size distribution suitable for pulmonary insulin delivery. © 2008 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2006.01.018
Title:Co-deposition of salmeterol and fluticasone propionate by a combination inhaler
Authors:A. TheophilusA. MooreD. PrimeS. RossomannoB. WhitcherH. Chrystyn
Absract:The combination of the long-acting β2-agonist, salmeterol xinafoate (salmeterol) and inhaled corticosteroid, fluticasone propionate (FP) (Seretide®/Advair®) has shown enhanced efficacy compared with concurrent administration of the two drugs from individual inhalers at the same dose. A possible explanation for this increased effect is a higher degree of co-deposition of the two drugs from the combination (Seretide) inhaler compared with the component drugs administered separately. Raman laser spectroscopy, a technique capable of identifying individual drug particles, has been used with novel statistical methodology that we have developed, to determine whether there is any co-association between drug particles and whether this occurs in the Seretide formulation rather than by chance. Samples from a combined Seretide metered dose inhaler (MDI, 25/50 mcg) and salmeterol (25 mcg) with FP (50 mcg) from separate MDI's taken from Plate 4 of an Anderson Cascade Impactor were analysed. Using a statistical test based on the bootstrap technique, it was found that the co-deposition of FP and salmeterol particles from the combination MDI was significantly greater than from the separate inhalers group (p < 0.001). A higher degree of co-deposition on the same cells of the airways may possibly account for the increased efficacy observed in patients prescribed Seretide MDI. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/dia.2007.0222
Title:The design and performance of the Exubera® pulmonary insulin delivery system
Authors:N.J. HarperS. GrayJ. De GrootJ.M. ParkerN. SadrzadehC. SchulerJ.D. SchumacherS. SeshadriA.E. SmithG.S. SteenoC.L. StevensonR. TaniereM. WangD.B. Bennett
Absract:The Exubera® system (Pfizer, New York, NY/Nektar Therapeutics, San Carlos, CA) is an integration of five major new technologies: protein formulation, powder processing, powder filling, drug packaging, and delivery device. The product provides a simple interface, where the patient interacts only with the delivery device and powder packaging. These components were designed together to assure repeatable dosing when used by a wide range of patients under real-world life-style and handling conditions. The device design is purely mechanical, using patient-generated compressed air as the energy source. Upon actuation, a sonic discharge of air through the novel release unit reproducibly extracts, de-agglomerates, and disperses the inhalation powder into a respirable aerosol. A clear holding chamber allows for patient feedback via dose visualization and separates aerosol cloud generation from the inspiratory effort. The Exubera product was tested under a wide range of typical use conditions and potential misuse scenarios and following long-term usage in clinical trials. These comprehensive characterization programs demonstrated robust aerosol and mechanical performance, confirming the design intent of the inhaler. These studies provide assurance of consistent and reliable dose delivery in a real-world use of the product. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2001.1276
Title:Evolution of dry powder inhaler design, formulation, and performance
Authors:S.P. NewmanW.W. Busse
Absract:Many companies are now prioritizing the development of dry powder inhalers (DPIs) above pressurized formulations of asthma drugs. A well-designed DPI and an appropriate powder formulation can optimize the effectiveness of inhaled drug therapy. A DPI must be able to deliver medications effectively for most patients, and an ideal inhaler would provide a dose that does not vary with inspiratory flow rate. Recent regulatory guidelines, among which the U.S.FDA draft guidance is the most stringent, demand consistent dose delivery from an inhaler throughout its life and consistency of doses from one inhaler to another. However, the properties of free micronized powders often interfere with drug handling and with drug delivery, reducing dose consistency. Recent advances in formulation technology can increase lung dose and reduce its variability. While a perfect DPI may never exist, both device and formulation technology are evolving to rectify perceived deficiencies in earlier systems. © 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd.

pui:26281509
Title:Efficacy of a new non-ozone depleting formulation for salbutamol
Authors:A. CustovicS.C.O. TaggartA. StuartA. RobinsonA. Woodcock
Absract:GR106642X is a new inhaler propellant, free of ozone depleting potential. This study compared the efficacy of a new non-ozone depleting formulation for salbutamol with the conventional salbutamol inhaler containing chlorofluorocarbons 11 and 12 in the protection from histamin-induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatic children. Twenty-five patients (16 boys and 9 girls; mean age 10 years, range 6-14 years) entered a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Bronchial hyperresponsiveness (PD@sub_begin20@sub_end) to inhaled histamine was measured 30 min after the inhalation of two puffs of one of three inhalers (Placebo/GR106642X, 100 μg salbutamol/GR106642X, 100 μg salbutamol/propellants 11 and 12) on three separate occasions between 24 h and 7 days apart. Log transformed PD@sub_begin20@sub_end values were compared using ANCOVA. All 25 subjects completed the study without side-effects attributable to the new propellant. Salbutamol delivered by either the old or new propellants was significantly more protective of histamine-induced bronchoconstriction than the placebo (the treatment: placebo ratio was 7.40 and 8.32 for salbutamol/GR106642X and salbutamol/propellants 11 and 12, respectively). Equivalence of effect was demonstrated between the new and old formulations (ratio 0.89; 90% CL 0.57, 1.39; P = 0.659). The new non-ozone depleting preparation of salbutamol is as efficacious as the salbutamol/chlorofluorocarbon formulation in the protection from histamine-induced bronchoconstriction in asthmatic children.

doi:10.1164/ajrccm-conference.2021.203.1_MeetingAbstracts.A1790
Title:Study design of two phase iii, prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trials evaluating the efficacy and safety of liposomal cyclosporin a for inhalation(L-CSA-I) in patients with bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome post single- (boston-1) or double-(boston-2) lung transplantation
Authors:S. Prante FernandesV. Monforte TorresD. CuomoR.R. HachemG. BoernerJ. McGrain
Absract:RATIONALE: Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) is the most common form of chronic lung allograft dysfunction, and the major limitation of long-term survival post lung transplantation (LTx). BOS affects up to 50% of LTx recipients within 5 years post-transplant. Currently there are no therapies indicated specifically for BOS. The most common treatment is augmentation of systemic immunosuppression, which has limited efficacy and is associated with deleterious long-term side effects. To address the goal of optimizing immunosuppression as a treatment for BOS, a novel liposomal formulation of cyclosporine A (L-CsA) delivered with an investigational eFlow® Technology nebulizer system (PARI Pharma GmbH) is being investigated. The objective of these two trials is to assess the efficacy and safety of inhaled L-CsA added to standard of Care (SoC) immunosuppression, in adult patients with single (SLT) and double lung transplantation (DLT). METHODS: Adult patients who received a SLT or DLT at least 12 months prior to screening, diagnosed with clinically defined BOS by FEV1 between 85-60% of personal best after transplant are eligible for inclusion. Patients are randomized 1:1 to L-CsA-i (5mg dose for SLT; 10mg dose for DLT) twice daily plus SoC or SoC alone. After informed consent has been obtained, a Screening Visit is carried out to check general eligibility for participation. At the Randomization Visit, inclusion and exclusion criteria will be reevaluated and spirometry performed. Safety and tolerability will be assessed by physical examination, vital signs, adverse event reporting, and clinical laboratory parameters at every visit. A total of 11 visits throughout the 48-week treatment period will be performed. At completion of trial period, patients from both treatment groups could be eligible to continue in an open-label extension trial (BOSTON-3). The primary endpoint for both trials is the mean absolute change in FEV1 (mL) from baseline to Week 48 between the treatment groups. Secondary endpoints for both trials include mean change in FEV1/FVC from baseline to Week 48 and time to progression of BOS. The latter endpoint will be assessed in a pooled analysis of both trials. CONCLUSIONS: These phase III trials will help characterize the safety and efficacy of L-CsA-i as add-on therapy to SoC in BOS patients. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, BOSTON-1 and BOSTON-2 are ongoing, ensuring the integrity of data collection and safety of enrolled patients. .

doi:10.2147/COPD.S269001
Title:Airway deposition of extrafine inhaled triple therapy in patients with copd: A model approach based on functional respiratory imaging computer simulations
Authors:O.S. UsmaniN. ScichiloneB. MignotD. BelmansC. Van HolsbekeJ. De BackerR. De MariaE. CuoghiE. TopoleG. Georges
Absract:Introduction: There is a clear correlation between small airways dysfunction and poor clinical outcomes in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and it is therefore important that inhalation therapy (both bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory) can deposit in the small airways. Two single-inhaler triple therapy (SITT) combinations are currently approved for the maintenance treatment of COPD: extrafine formulation beclomethasone dipropionate/formoterol fumarate/glycopyrronium bromide (BDP/FF/GB), and nonextrafine formulation fluticasone furoate/vilanterol/umeclidinium (FluF/VI/UMEC). This study evaluated the lung deposition of the inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist (LABA), and long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) components of these two SITTs. Materials and Methods: Lung deposition was estimated in-silico using functional respiratory imaging, a validated technique that uses aerosol delivery performance profiles, patients’ high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) lung scans, and patient-derived inhalation profiles to simulate aerosol lung deposition. Results: HRCT scan data from 20 patients with COPD were included in these analyses, who had post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) ranging from 19.3% to 66.0% predicted. For intrathoracic deposition (as a percentage of the emitted dose), deposition of the ICS component was higher from BDP/FF/GB than FluF/VI/UMEC; the two triple therapies had similar performance for both the LABA component and the LAMA component. Peripheral deposition of all three components was higher with BDP/FF/GB than FluF/ VI/UMEC. Furthermore, the ratios of central to peripheral deposition for all three components of BDP/FF/GB were <1, indicating greater peripheral than central deposition (0.48 ±0.13, 0.48±0.13 and 0.49±0.13 for BDP, FF and GB, respectively; 1.96±0.84, 0.97±0.34 and 1.20±0.48 for FluF, VI and UMEC, respectively). Conclusions: Peripheral (small airways) deposition of all three components (ICS, LABA, and LAMA) was higher from BDP/FF/GB than from FluF/VI/UMEC, based on profiles from patients with moderate to very severe COPD. This is consistent with the extrafine formulation of BDP/FF/GB.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.118504
Title:Correlations between surface composition and aerosolization of jet-milled dry powder inhaler formulations with pharmaceutical lubricants
Authors:S. MangalH. ParkR. NourN. ShettyA. CavallaroD. ZemlyanovK. ThalbergV. PuriM. NicholasA.S. NarangQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Co-jet-milling drugs and lubricants may enable simultaneous particle size reduction and surface coating to achieve satisfactory aerosolization performance. This study aims to establish the relationship between surface lubricant coverage and aerosolization behavior of a model drug (ciprofloxacin HCl) co-jet-milled with lubricants [magnesium stearate (MgSt) or L-leucine]. The co-jet-milled formulations were characterized for particle size, morphology, cohesion, Carr's index, and aerosolization performance. The surface lubricant coating was assessed by probing surface chemical composition using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and time-of-flight secondary-ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS). The effects of co-jet-milling on the surface energy and in vitro dissolution of ciprofloxacin were also evaluated. Our results indicated that, in general, the ciprofloxacin co-jet-milled with L-leucine at >0.5% w/w showed a significant higher fine particle fraction (FPF) compared with the ciprofloxacin jet-milled alone. The FPF values plateau at or above 5% w/w for both MgSt and L-leucine. We have established the quantitative correlations between surface lubricant coverage and aerosolization in the tested range for each of the lubricants. More importantly, our results suggest different mechanisms to improve aerosolization for MgSt-coating and L-leucine-coating, respectively: MgSt-coating reduces inter-particulate interactions through the formation of low surface energy coating films, while L-leucine-coating not only reduces the surface energy but also creates rough particle surfaces that reduce inter-particulate contact area. Furthermore, surface coatings with 5% w/w MgSt (which is hydrophobic) did not lead to substantial changes in in vitro dissolution. Our findings have shown that the coating structure/quality and their effects could be highly dependent on the process and the coating material. The findings from this mechanistic study provide fundamental understanding of the critical effects of MgSt and L-leucine surface coverages on aerosolization and powder flow properties of inhalation particles.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.02.018
Title:Effects of the antibiotic component on in-vitro bacterial killing, physico-chemical properties, aerosolization and dissolution of a ternary-combinational inhalation powder formulation of antibiotics for pan-drug resistant Gram-negative lung infections
Authors:S. MangalJ. HuangN. ShettyH. ParkY.-W. LinH.H. YuD. ZemlyanovT. VelkovJ. LiQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Combinational antibiotic formulations have emerged as an important strategy to combat antibiotic resistance. The main objective of this study was to examine effects of individual components on the antimicrobial activity, physico-chemical properties, aerosolization and dissolution of powder aerosol formulations when three synergistic drugs were co-spray dried. A ternary dry powder formulation consisting of meropenem (75.5 %w/w), colistin (15.1 %w/w) and rifampicin (9.4 %w/w) at the selected ratio was produced by spray drying. The ternary formulation was characterized for in-vitro antibacterial activity, physico-chemical properties, surface composition, aerosol performance and dissolution. All of the formulations demonstrated excellent aerosolization behavior achieving a fine particle fraction of >70%, which was substantially higher than those for the Meropenem-SD and Colistin-Meropenem formulations. The results indicated that rifampicin controlled the surface morphology of the ternary and binary combination formulations resulting in the formation of highly corrugated particles. Advanced characterization of surface composition by XPS supported the hypothesis that rifampicin was enriched on the surface of the combination powder formulations. All spray-dried formulations were amorphous and absorbed substantial amount of water at the elevated humidity. Storage at the elevated humidity caused a substantial decline in aerosolization performance for the Meropenem-SD and Colistin-Meropenem, which was attributed to increased inter-particulate capillary forces or particle fusion. In contrast, the ternary combination and binary Meropenem-Rifampicin formulations showed no change in aerosol performance at the elevated storage humidity conditions; attributable to the enriched hydrophobicity of rifampicin on the particle surface that acted as a barrier against moisture condensation and particle fusion. Interestingly, in the ternary formulation rifampicin enrichment on the surface did not interfere with the dissolution of other two components (i.e. meropenem and colistin). Our study provides an insight on the impact of each component on the performance of co-spray dried combinational formulations.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13010031
Title:Dry powder for pulmonary delivery: A comprehensive review
Authors:B. ChaurasiyaY.-Y. Zhao
Absract:The pulmonary route has long been used for drug administration for both local and systemic treatment. It possesses several advantages, which can be categorized into physiological, i.e., large surface area, thin epithelial membrane, highly vascularized, limited enzymatic activity, and patient convenience, i.e., non-invasive, self-administration over oral and systemic routes of drug administration. However, the formulation of dry powder for pulmonary delivery is often challenging due to restrictions on aerodynamic size and the lung’s lower tolerance capacity in comparison with an oral route of drug administration. Various physicochemical properties of dry powder play a major role in the aerosolization, deposition, and clearance along the respiratory tract. To prepare suitable particles with optimal physicochemical properties for inhalation, various manufacturing methods have been established. The most frequently used industrial methods are milling and spray-drying, while several other alternative methods such as spray-freeze-drying, supercritical fluid, non-wetting templates, inkjet-printing, thin-film freezing, and hot-melt extrusion methods are also utilized. The aim of this review is to provide an overview of the respiratory tract structure, particle deposition patterns, and possible drug-clearance mechanisms from the lungs. This review also includes the physicochemical properties of dry powder, various techniques used for the preparation of dry powders, and factors affecting the clinical efficacy, as well as various challenges that need to be addressed in the future.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2016.07.018
Title:Itraconazole-loaded nanostructured lipid carriers (NLC) for pulmonary treatment of aspergillosis in falcons
Authors:J. PardeikeS. WeberH.P. ZarflM. PagitzA. Zimmer
Absract:Aspergillosis is the most common and most lethal disease in captive falcons, which is most effectively treated with the poorly soluble drug Itraconazole. To obtain a high drug concentration at the side of infection, the falcon's respiratory system, an isotonic, sterile, non-toxic NLC formulation loaded with Itraconazole was developed for pulmonary application. Itraconazole-loaded NLC had a particle size well in the nanometer range and possessed a narrow particle size distribution. An entrapment efficiency of 99.98% was achieved. A good storage stability of the formulation over 6 months was found. Neither by MTS nor by LDH assay cytotoxic effects were determined on the cell line A549, indicating a good tolerability after inhalation. No physical instabilities of Itraconazole-loaded NLC could be detected nebulizing the formulation with a new nanonebulizer into a therapeutic chamber for the treatment of falcons. It could be shown, that the particle size of the aerosol generated nebulizing Itraconazole-loaded NLC with the nanonebulizer was in the nanometer range, providing the possibility to penetrate into the respiratory tract of falcons. By scintigraphy deposition of Itraconazole-loaded NLC in the lung and the air sacs of a patient was shown, being a prerequisite for the pulmonary treatment of aspergillosis in falcons.

pui:30722574
Title:Clinical evaluation of hemodynamic, analgesic, psychedelic and neuromuscular block effects of racemic ketamine versus S(+) ketamine
Authors:G.R. LaurettiI.C.P.R. LimaR.Y. BuscattiM.P. Reis
Absract:Background and Objectives - The literature suggests that S(+) ketamine is more potent and has less psychedelic effects as compared to its racemic formulation. This study aimed at comparing psychedelic, hemodynamic, analgesic and anesthetic effects of racemic ketamine versus S(+) ketamine. Methods - Participated in this study 36 adult patients premedicated with midazolam. Fentanyl was administered in the operating room (3 μg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end) followed by a 2 mg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end bolus of racemic ketamine and continuous infusion (2 mg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end.h@sup_begin-1@sup_end) for Group Keta-R. Group (+) Keta received a bolus administration of 1 mg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end racemic ketamine followed by continuous infusion (1 mg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end.h@sup_begin-1@sup_end). Intravenous atracurium (0.25 mg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end) was administered after loss of eyelid reflex being then increased to 0.5 mg.kg@sup_begin-1@sup_end for tracheal intubation. Propofol or inhalational anesthetics were used at the sole judgment of the anesthesiologist. Neuromuscular block, inhalational anesthetics consumption, perioperative analgesia, psychedelic effects including dreams and nightmares, visual and concentration alterations were evaluated by an independent observer. Results - Group (+) Keta required more propofol during anesthesia induction. Mean inhalational anesthetics consumption was higher for Group (+) Keta. Group (+) Keta was more sensitive to needle prickling and took longer to ask for analgesics as compared to Group Keta-R. Seven Group Keta-R patients and 1 Group (+) Keta patient presented with visual alterations. Group (+) Keta patients had better concentration (p=0,0033) and a lower incidence of dreams. Conclusions - S(+) ketamine provided for a better analgesia without psychedelic effects as compared to racemic ketamine.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Integrated acoustic actuator for signalling inhaler activity
Authors:M. SandersA. ThomasonC. Tran
Absract:Introduction: Integrated pMDI technique-guidance requires successful manufacturing at scale and suitability for the user. A new guidance tool is part of/adjacent to the pMDI stem block (SB), and is active at 20-45L.min@sup_begin-1@sup_end flow rate (slow, steady inhalation). The audible whistle is distinct from normal background noise and is smartphonedetectable up to 10m. Core question: Current research investigated the effect of this new actuator on aerosol particle size distribution (APSD) and delivered dose. Methods: Two APSD experiments were conducted at 30L.min@sup_begin-1@sup_end using standard Next Generation Impactor methodologies. The first compared salbutamol, n=5, (Ventolin® Evohaler® control, GSK) with Ventolin housed in a substantially similar actuator that incorporated a whistling 0.5mm SB-orifice (the In-Tone@sup_beginTM@sup_end actuator). The second compared, as control, a standard actuator salbutamol-HFA152a development formulation (Zephex® 152a, Koura Limited, 0.3mm SB-orifice) with the In-Tone actuator in three SB-orifice sizes (0.3mm, 0.4mm, 0.5mm). Results and discussion: In-Tone did not affect the APSD profile or key variables of Ventolin Evohaler (FPF-%<5μm: control 45.7 ± 4.0, +In-Tone 49.5 ± 2.6; FPD-μg<5μm: control 40.8 ± 3.6, +In-Tone 45.7 ± 4.1) or the HFA152a 0.3mm SB-orifice (FPF: control 53.7 ± 2.6, +In-Tone 55.9 ± 4.4; FPD: control 69.4 ± 12.2, +In-Tone 72.5 ± 15.3). The two larger HFA-152a SB-orifice diameters resulted in greater induction port deposition and decreased FPFs but were fully functional and proportionate in response. Conclusion: These early example data suggest that this guidance actuator can deliver the required APSD performance with today's and future formulations. This propounds the possibility of low-cost non-Bluetooth® smart inhalers capable of providing user guidance, which could lead to improved inhaler technique.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Methionine offers superior aerosolization stability over leucine for inhalable high-dose spray-dried kanamycin formulation
Authors:B.R. AdhikariK. BerzinsS.J. Fraser-MillerK.C. GordonS.C. Das
Absract:Leucine has been widely used to improve aerosolization of high dose spray-dried formulations for inhalation. However, the use of other amino acids such as methionine for the same purpose has not been well established. The aim of this study was to assess the aerosolization stability offered by methionine inclusive formulation. Inhalable particles of kanamycin-methionine (KM) and kanamycinleucine (KL) were prepared by co-spray drying of the drug with amino acids in 1:1 molar ratio. Solid state characterization was conducted using thermal techniques, microscopy, and Raman spectroscopy. Stability study was performed at 25 °C/<15% relative humidity (RH) and 25 °C/53% RH over 28 days. The Fine Particle Fraction (FPF), determined by Next Generation Impactor with an aerolizer, of the freshly prepared KM and KL formulations were 84% and 85%. Methionine formed a co-amorphous system with kanamycin while leucine crystallized in the co-spray dried in freshly prepared KL. After storage at 25 °C/53% RH for 28 days, the water content of KL and KM were 10.5% and 9.7%, the particles stuck together only in KL, and the methionine in KM crystallized; the FPF of the KL formulation significantly decreased to 79% (p < 0.05) whereas the FPF of the KM formulation remained unchanged. The decrease in FPF of the KL was possibly due to particle sticking as evident from SEM images. This study suggests that methionine offers better aerosolization stability than leucine at high relative humidity (53%) for kanamycin formulation.

doi:10.1021/acs.nanolett.8b04309
Title:Optimized Bexarotene Aerosol Formulation Inhibits Major Subtypes of Lung Cancer in Mice
Authors:Q. ZhangS.B. LeeX. ChenM.E. StevensonJ. PanD. XiongY. ZhouM.S. MillerR.A. LubetY. WangS.P. MirzaM. You
Absract:Bexarotene has shown inhibition of lung and mammary gland tumorigenesis in preclinical models and in clinical trials. The main side effects of orally administered bexarotene are hypertriglyceridemia and hypercholesterolemia. We previously demonstrated that aerosolized bexarotene administered by nasal inhalation has potent chemopreventive activity in a lung adenoma preclinical model without causing hypertriglyceridemia. To facilitate its future clinical translation, we modified the formula of the aerosolized bexarotene with a clinically relevant solvent system. This optimized aerosolized bexarotene formulation was tested against lung squamous cell carcinoma mouse model and lung adenocarcinoma mouse model and showed significant chemopreventive effect. This new formula did not cause visible signs of toxicity and did not increase plasma triglycerides or cholesterol. This aerosolized bexarotene was evenly distributed to the mouse lung parenchyma, and it modulated the microenvironment in vivo by increasing the tumor-infiltrating T cell population. RNA sequencing of the lung cancer cell lines demonstrated that multiple pathways are altered by bexarotene. For the first time, these studies demonstrate a new, clinically relevant aerosolized bexarotene formulation that exhibits preventive efficacy against the major subtypes of lung cancer. This approach could be a major advancement in lung cancer prevention for high risk populations, including former and present smokers.

doi:10.1002/jps.23775
Title:Development and comparison of new high-efficiency dry powder inhalers for carrier-free formulations
Authors:S.R.B. BeharaP.W. LongestD.R. FarkasM. Hindle
Absract:High-efficiency dry powder inhalers (DPIs) were developed and tested for use with carrier-free formulations across a range of different inhalation flow rates. Performance of a previously reported DPI was compared with two new designs in terms of emitted dose (ED) and aerosolization characteristics using in vitro experiments. The two new designs oriented the capsule chamber (CC) at different angles to the main flow passage, which contained a three-dimensional (3D) rod array for aerosol deaggregation. Computational fluid dynamics simulations of a previously developed deaggregation parameter, the nondimensional specific dissipation (NDSD), were used to explain device performance. Orienting the CC at 90° to the mouthpiece, the CC90-3D inhaler provided the best performance with an ED = 73.4%, fine particle fractions (FPFs) less than 5 and 1 μm of 95.1% and 31.4%, respectively, and a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) = 1.5 μm. For the carrier-free formulation, deaggregation was primarily influenced by capsule aperture position and the NDSD parameter. The new CC-3D inhalers reduced the percent difference in FPF and MMAD between low and high flows by 1.2 orders of magnitude compared with current commercial devices. In conclusion, the new CC-3D inhalers produced extremely high-quality aerosols with little sensitivity to flow rate and are expected to deliver approximately 95% of the ED to the lungs. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association J Pharm Sci 103:465.477, 2014.

doi:10.1177/1753465812458984
Title:Nebulized hypertonic saline containing hyaluronic acid improves tolerability in patients with cystic fibrosis and lung disease compared with nebulized hypertonic saline alone: A prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled study
Authors:M.L. FurnariL. TerminiG. TraversoS. BarraleM.R. BonaccorsoG. DamianiC.L. PiparoM. Collura
Absract:Background: Hypertonic saline inhalation has been shown to be effective in patients with cystic fibrosis and lung disease. However, adverse events including marked airway narrowing are reported and a bronchodilator must be given before the administration of the product. Methods: We carried out a prospective, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, controlled study of a hypertonic saline solution containing hyaluronic acid (Hyaneb) versus standard hypertonic saline therapy to assess whether the presence of hyaluronic acid would improve the tolerability of hypertonic saline. Results and conclusions: The results showed that nebulized Hyaneb was more effective in reducing the need for β@sub_begin2@sub_end bronchodilators and caused a significant reduction in the incidence of adverse effects compared with nebulized hypertonic saline solution alone. Its safety profile indicates that Hyaneb can be used for the treatment of lung disease in cystic fibrosis. © The Author(s), 2012.

doi:10.1007/s11095-007-9381-6
Title:Preparation and in vivo evaluation of a dry powder for inhalation of capreomycin
Authors:J. FiegelL. Garcia-ContrerasM. ThomasJ. VerberkmoesK. ElbertA. HickeyD. Edwards
Absract:Purpose. To develop an aerosol system for efficient local lung delivery of a tuberculostatic drug. Methods. The antibiotic, capreomycin sulfate, was spray dried to form a dry powder aerosol. The chemical content and physical properties of resulting particles were assessed under various storage conditions. Plasma concentrations of capreomycin after insufflation into guinea pigs were evaluated at three doses, and compared to IV and IM administration of a capreomycin solution. Results. Dry powder aerosols containing capreomycin were formulated to enable efficient delivery of large drug masses to the lungs of guinea pigs. Aerosols loaded with 73% CS were shown to possess good aerosolization properties and physical-chemical stability for up to 3 months at room temperature. Upon insufflation into guinea pigs, the amount of CS reaching the bloodstream was significantly lower compared to IV or IM administration, but resulted in a significantly longer drug half-life. Conclusions. The results indicate that large doses of capreomycin in dry powder form can be efficiently delivered to the lungs of guinea pigs, which may result in high local drug exposure but significantly reduced systemic exposure as suggested by plasma concentrations in the present studies. These systems have considerable potential to provide more effective therapy for MDR-TB © 2007 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1007/s11095-004-9020-4
Title:How much particle surface corrugation is sufficient to improve aerosol performance of powders?
Authors:N.Y.K. ChewP. TangH.-K. ChanJ.A. Raper
Absract:Purpose. The current study aimed to quantify the different degree of particle surface corrugation and correlate it to the aerosol performance of powders. Methods. Powders of different degree of surface corrugation were prepared by spray drying under varying conditions. The solid-state properties of the powders including particle size, morphology, crystal form, true density, and moisture content were characterized. The degree of surface corrugation was quantified by the surface fractal dimension (D@sub_beginS@sub_end) obtained by light scattering. The aerosol performance was studied by dispersing the powders using the Rotahaler at 60 L/min into a multi-stage liquid impinger. Fine particle fraction (FPF) was expressed as the wt% of BSA particles of size ≤5 μm in the aerosol. Results. Four powders of increasing degree of particle surface corrugation were prepared, with D@sub_beginS@sub_end ranging from 2.06 for the least corrugated to 2.41 for the most corrugated. The powders had a similar size distribution (VMD 3 μm, span 1.4-1.5) and solid-state properties. Increasing the surface corrugation, D@sub_beginS@sub_end, slightly from 2.06 to 2.18 enhanced the FPF significantly from 27% to 41%. This was explained by the reduced area of contacts and increased separation distance between the particles. Further increase of corrugation (D@sub_beginS@sub_end ≥ 2.18) did not improve FPF. Conclusions. Powders with varying degrees of corrugation were successfully obtained by spray drying with their surface roughness quantified by fractal analysis. It was shown that only a relatively small degree of surface corrugation was sufficient to accomplish a considerable improvement in the aerosol performance of the powder. © 2005 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1177/109158189801700503
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of iodopropynyl butylcarbamate (IPBC)
Authors:R.S. Lanigan
Absract:Iodopropynyl Butylcarbamate (IPBC) functions as a preservative in a wide variety of cosmetic formulations. Although concentrations as high as 0.1% have been reported, most applications appear to require this preservative at less than 0.0125%. IPBC readily penetrates through the skin. The average acute oral LD@sub_begin50@sub_end in rats is 1.47 g/kg. Rats fed IPBC for 4 weeks had increased liver weights and decreased plasma cholinesterase activity, and rats fed IPBC for 13 weeks had transient behavior alteration, increased liver weights, hepatocyte enlargement, stomach lesions, and decreased weight gain. Rats administered IPBC as dusts and liquid aerosols had labored breathing - lung edema, emphysema, and reddened lungs were observed after exposure. Dermal irritation, but no evidence of skin sensitization, was seen in animal studies. At concentrations of 0.5%, IPBC caused iritis and conjunctival irritation in rabbit eyes, but exposure to concentrations up to 0.015% produced only slight conjunctival redness. IPBC was not genotoxic, with or without metabolic activation. No evidence of carcinogenic potential was found in a 104-week chronic oral toxicity study using rats. Reductions in weight gain were observed, along with inflammation of the nonglandular stomach and lesions in the submaxillary salivary gland. In reproductive and developmental toxicity studies using rats and mice, IPBC had no significant effect on fertility, reproductive performance, or on the incidence of fetal malformations. IPBC was found to be mildly irritating, but not sensitizing in clinical testing. At concentrations up to 0.1%, IPBC was not comedogenic in clinical tests. Given the acute inhalation toxicity observed in animals, the potential for mild irritation, and the absence of any data on comedogenicity at concentrations higher than 0.1% in clinical tests, the Expert Panel concluded that IPBC is safe as a cosmetic ingredient at concentrations ≤0.1%, but that it should not be used in products intended to be aerosolized.

doi:10.1039/9781782620402-00021
Title:CHAPTER 2: Hard Capsules in Modern Drug Delivery
Authors:S. StegemannW. TianM. MorgenS. Brown
Absract:Hard capsules are one of the oldest and yet most innovative dosage forms, which can address many of the challenges of modern day pharmaceutical development. For many years, hard capsules made of gelatin served as a drug delivery vehicle for different types of oral and pulmonary formulations. Over the past decades capsules made of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (HPMC) and pullulan have reached the market, which has opened up a range of possibilities for drug delivery in hard capsules. These include HPMC-based hard capsules providing enteric or bioavailability-enhancing properties. Moreover, an understanding of the science behind the manufacturing technologies of hard capsules has advanced, fulfilling the requirements of quality by design as well as allowing further customization of hard capsules to provide capsules with low moisture or low powder retention, which can be critical to their performance in certain applications such as inhalation. With the development of new capsule designs additional applications of hard capsules became viable e.g. the filling of liquid formulations, secure double blinding in clinical trials or the use for sprinkle forms for patients with swallowing issues. As a result, hard capsules are being used globally for a wide range of formulations. Hard capsule technology takes advantage of its flexibility and the simplicity of the manufacturing process, requiring just mixing and filling. In conjunction with the broad range of available small- to large-scale manufacturing equipment and capsule filling technology established around the world, hard capsules play an important role in global healthcare provision.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.03.079
Title:Clarithromycin and N-acetylcysteine co-spray-dried powders for pulmonary drug delivery: A focus on drug solubility
Authors:M.D. MannielloP. Del GaudioR.P. AquinoP. Russo
Absract:Cystic fibrosis (CF) lungs are usually susceptible to Pseudomonas aeruginosa colonization and this bacterium is resistant to immune system clearance and drug control. Particularly, the biofilm mode of growth protects several microorganisms from host defenses and antibacterial drugs, mainly due to a delayed penetration of the drug through the biofilm matrix. Biofilm, together with lung mucus viscosity and tenacity, reduces, therefore, the effectiveness of conventional antibiotic therapy in CF. The aim of this research was to design and develop a stable, portable, easy to use dry powder inhaler (DPI) for CF patients, able to release directly to the lung an association of macrolide antibiotics (clarithromycin) and a mucolytic agent (N-Acetyl-Cysteine). Its effectiveness is based on the counteracting of the characteristics of P. aeruginosa infections in CF (lung bacterial adhesion to lung epithelium, biofilm formation and mucus viscosity) and the ability to let the antimicrobial drug exert their pharmacological action. A solution of these two drugs, without any excipients, was spray-dried to obtain respirable microparticles, characterized by aerodynamic diameters suitable for inhalation (<5.0 μm). The morphology evaluation evidenced particles shape dependent on water content in the spray drying feeds, with wrinkled particles more evident with higher water content. Moreover, thanks to the presence of N-acetylcysteine which can interact with clarithromycin dimethyl-amino group, a consistent enhancement of drug solubility was obtained, compared to raw material and to the drug sprayed alone. The mucolytic agent added in the DPI may improve the macrolide diffusion into the mucus, enabling its action.

doi:10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2014-052175
Title:Flavour chemicals in electronic cigarette fluids
Authors:P.A. TierneyC.D. KarpinskiJ.E. BrownW. LuoJ.F. Pankow
Absract:BACKGROUND: Most e-cigarette liquids contain flavour chemicals. Flavour chemicals certified as safe for ingestion by the Flavor Extracts Manufacturers Association may not be safe for use in e-cigarettes. This study identified and measured flavour chemicals in 30 e-cigarette fluids.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.12.006
Title:Evaluation of metered dose inhaler spray velocities using Phase Doppler Anemometry (PDA)
Authors:X. LiuW.H. DoubC. Guo
Absract:Droplet velocity is an important parameter which can significantly influence inhalation drug delivery performance. Together with the droplet size, this parameter determines the efficiency of the deposition of MDI products at different sites within the lungs. In this study, Phase Doppler Anemometry (PDA) was used to investigate the instantaneous droplet velocity emitted from MDIs as well as the corresponding droplet size distribution. The nine commercial MDI products surveyed showed significantly different droplet velocities, indicating that droplet velocity could be used as a discriminating parameter for in vitro testing of MDI products. The droplet velocity for all tested MDI products decreased when the testing distance was increased from 3 cm to 6 cm from the front of mouthpiece, with CFC formulations showing a larger decrease than HFA formulations. The mean droplet diameters of the nine MDIs were also significantly different from one-another. Droplet size measurements made using PDA (a number-based technique) could not be directly compared to results obtained using laser light scattering measurements (a volume-based technique). This work demonstrates that PDA can provide unique information useful for characterizing MDI aerosol plumes and evaluating MDI drug delivery efficiency. PDA could also aid the evaluation of in vitro equivalence in support of formulation or manufacturing changes and in evaluation of abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) for MDIs. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.nurt.2010.03.004
Title:Meeting Acute Migraine Treatment Needs through Novel Treatment Formulations
Authors:S.D. Silberstein
Absract:Migraineurs often do not use acute migraine-specific medications. Patient-reported satisfaction with triptans is modest. Patients are generally interested in obtaining more rapid and complete symptom relief. The role of trigeminal vascular activation may explain why some patients fail to respond to current treatment. Novel formulations of currently available acute migraine treatments have been developed, with improved clinical outcomes, response times, and pain-free rates. Currently available effective, novel, acute migraine therapies include needle-free injectable sumatriptan and effervescent diclofenac. Orally inhaled dihydroergotamine is a new treatment modality. These novel formulations may help patients achieve desirable outcomes, including faster and more complete relief, more consistent response, and improved drug tolerability. © 2010.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2006.03.052
Title:Formulation and cytotoxicity of doxorubicin nanoparticles carried by dry powder aerosol particles
Authors:S. AzarmiX. TaoH. ChenZ. WangW.H. FinlayR. LöbenbergW.H. Roa
Absract:Regional drug delivery via dry powder inhalers offers many advantages in the management of pharmaceutical compounds for the prevention and treatment of respiratory diseases. In the present study, doxorubicin (DOX)-loaded nanoparticles were incorporated as colloidal drug delivery system into inhalable carrier particles using a spray-freeze-drying technique. The cytotoxic effects of free DOX, carrier particles containing blank nanoparticles or DOX-loaded nanoparticles on H460 and A549 lung cancer cells were assessed using a colorimetric XTT cell viability assay. The mean geometric carrier particle size of 10 ± 4 μm was determined using confocal laser scanning microscopy. DOX-loaded nanoparticles had a particle size of 173 ± 43 nm after re-dissolving of the carrier particles. Compared to H460 cells, A549 cells showed less sensitivity to the treatment with free DOX. The DOX-nanoparticles showed in both cell lines a higher cytotoxicity at the highest tested concentration compared to the blank nanoparticles and the free DOX. The cell uptake of free DOX and DOX delivered by nanoparticles was confirmed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. This study supports the approach of lung cancer treatment using nanoparticles in dry powder aerosol form. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1111/cts.12697
Title:Population Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic Analysis of Intravenous Zanamivir in Healthy Adults and Hospitalized Adult and Pediatric Subjects With Influenza
Authors:P. ZuoJ. CollinsM. OkourA. BarthD. ShortinoP. YatesG. RobertsH.A. WatsonA. PeppercornM. Hossain
Absract:Zanamivir is a potent and highly selective inhibitor of influenza neuraminidase in which the inhibition of this enzyme prevents the virus from infecting other cells and specifically prevents release of the new virion from the host cell membrane. It is available as an oral powder for inhalation and intravenous formulations. The current population pharmacokinetic model based on data from eight studies of subjects treated with the intravenous formulation (125 healthy adults and 533 hospitalized adult and pediatric subjects with suspected or confirmed influenza) suggested a decreased zanamivir clearance in pediatric and renal impairment adult subjects. It also indicates that b.i.d. dosing is necessary to keep the exposure in influenza infected subjects above the 90% inhibitory concentration values of recently circulating viruses over the dosing interval. In the exposure-response analysis (phases II and III studies), no apparent relationship was found between zanamivir exposure and clinically relevant pharmacodynamic end points.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.01.070
Title:Aerodynamic properties and in silico deposition of meloxicam potassium incorporated in a carrier-free DPI pulmonary system
Authors:A. ChvatalÁ. FarkasI. BalásházyP. Szabó-RévészR. Ambrus
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) have been among the fastest developing inhaler forms in the past decades. Researches are focusing on the formulation of carrier-free powders to obtain a higher deep-lung deposition and hereby to increase the effectiveness of the medicine. The aim of our study was to prepare a carrier-free dry powder formulation of meloxicam potassium (MP), a novel salt form of meloxicam, using a one-step co-spray drying technology. Different types of excipients were used to modify the crystal structure and to increase aerosolization efficacy. Micrometric properties and the crystal structure were characterized. Aerodynamic properties were tested in vitro using an Andersen Cascade Impactor. A new in silico Stochastic Lung Model was also applied to quantify the amount of particles deposited at the target area. The results have shown that formulated DPI samples are fulfilling the requirements of effective pulmonary drug delivery: they include spherical particles with low density and 1–5 μm size distribution. The in silico deposition results correspond with the in vitro measurements and demonstrate that the engineered microcomposites reach a high lung deposition. MP offers a novel opportunity for a well-controlled DPI formulation prepared by a solution-based co-spray drying method.

doi:10.1111/j.1440-1681.2007.04690.x
Title:Spinal α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors may mediate the analgesic effects of emulsified halogenated anaesthetics
Authors:L.-H. HangD.-H. ShaoY.-H. YangT.-J. DaiY.-M. Zeng
Absract:1. The present study was designed to investigate the relationship between spinal cord α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors and the analgesic effects of emulsified halogenated anaesthetics. 2. After having established the mouse model of analgesia by intraperitoneal or subcutaneous injections of appropriate doses of emulsified enflurane, isoflurane or sevoflurane, we injected different doses of AMPA intrathecally and observed effects on the pain threshold using the hot-plate and acetic acid-induced writhing tests. 3. The results showed that intrathecal injection of AMPA (0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 ng) did not affect the pain threshold on the hot-plate test or the writhing times in conscious mice. In contrast, AMPA (0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 ng intrathecally) significantly and dose-dependently decreased the pain threshold on the hot-plate test and increased the writhing times in mice treated with emulsified anaesthetics. 4. These results suggest that spinal AMPA receptors may be important targets for the analgesic effects of emulsified enflurane, isoflurane and sevoflurane. © 2007 The Authors.

pui:24290023
Title:Nebulized glucocorticoids in liposomes: Aerosol characteristics and human dose estimates
Authors:J.C. WaldrepP.W. SchererG.D. HessM. BlackV. Knight
Absract:We have developed glucocorticoid (GC)-phosphatidylcholine (PC) liposome formulations for pulmonary administration in small-particle aerosol generated by continuous jet nebulizers from aqueous suspensions. Four PC derivatives, i.e., dilauroyl phosphatidylcholine (DLPC), dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine (DOPC), palmitoleoyl phosphatidylcholine (POPC), and egg-yolk phosphatidylcholine (EYPC) were suitable for efficient delivery of GC- liposome aerosol with different topically active GC, i.e., beclomethasone (Bec), budesonide (Bud), flunisolide (Flu), triamcinolone acetonide (Taa), and dexamethasone (Dex). Aqueous aerosol droplets containing GC-liposomes demonstrated a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) range of 1.2 - 1.9 μm and geometric standard deviation (GSD) range of 2.0 - 2.6. A phase transition temperature (Tc) of PC below nebulizer temperature was critical for efficient GC-liposome nebulization. DLPC was selected for development because of its performance, increased stability, and low Tc. Sites of deposition in the human respiratory tract were calculated from a computer model based on the GC-liposome aerosol MMAD, GSD, and GC content. The predicted regional deposition of Bec-DLPC liposome aerosol in the oropharynx was 2.5%, 4.9% in Weibel airway generations 0-16, and 17.5% in generations 17-23, while 75.1% of aerosol will be exhaled. From these data, human dosages equivalent to those recommended by MDI could be delivered within 15-30 minutes of inhalation (depending on GC potency) to treat inflammatory diseases of the respiratory tract.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Development of chrysin dry powder inhaler formulation for the potential treatment of respiratory-related diseases
Authors:R. OumY. Al AyoubA. ParadkarO.A. AbedK.H. Assi
Absract:Chrysin has been reported by many studies as an anti-inflammatory agent. However, high doses of flavonoids should be used due to its low bioavailability after oral administration. Therefore, formulating inhalational chrysin, to be delivered directly to the site of action in the lung, may enhance the bioavailability due to the absence of first pass metabolism. The aim of this study is to assess the aerosol performance of the chrysin DPI formulation using two common carriers (lactose and mannitol) and various drug-carrier's mixing ratios (1/10 and 1/67.5 w/w%). Inhalable chrysin particles were prepared by two different techniques: the sono-crystallisation and ball-milling methods. For sono-crystallisation formulations, the highest FPF% of 27% was obtained with lactose formulation compared to 14% for the mannitol, with MMAD below 2.6 μm for both formulations. A similar trend was observed in ball-milling samples; the highest FPF% of 10.3% when lactose was the carrier, and 8.6% for mannitol, with MMAD below 3.8lm. These results demonstrate that the performance of chrysin DPI formulations produced using a sono-crystallisation technique was superior to the formulations produced with a mechanical ball-milling process. This finding agrees with previous studies that found particles produced by ultrasound have an enhanced inhalational application. Besides, all formulations in the current study showed a higher FPF% and lower MMAD when lactose was used as a carrier. It was also found that FPF% of chrysin increases when increasing the carrier concentration. The chrysin formulations produced using sonocrystallisation are more suitable to be used for further inhalation and animal studies.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2007.10.001
Title:Evaluation of in vitro in vivo correlations for dry powder inhaler delivery using artificial neural networks
Authors:M. de MatasQ. ShaoC.H. RichardsonH. Chrystyn
Absract:The aim of these experiments was to investigate the use of artificial neural networks (ANNs) for generating models able to predict the relative lung bioavailability and clinical effect of salbutamol when delivered to healthy volunteers and asthmatic patients from dry powder inhalers (DPIs). ANN software was used to model in vitro, demographic and in vivo data from human subjects for four different DPI formulations containing salbutamol sulfate. In 12 volunteers, a model linking the in vitro aerodynamic characteristics of the emitted dose and volunteer body surface area with the urinary excretion of drug and its metabolite in the 24 h period after inhalation was established. In 11 mild asthmatics, a predictive model correlating in vitro data, baseline lung function, body surface area and age with post-treatment improvements in forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) was also generated. Models validated using unseen data from individual subjects receiving the different DPI formulations were shown to give predictions of in vivo performance. The squared correlation coefficients (R@sup_begin2@sup_end) for plots comparing predicted and observed in vivo outcomes were 0.83 and 0.84 for urinary excretion and lung function data, respectively. It can therefore be concluded that ANN models have the potential to predict the in vivo performance of DPIs in individual subjects. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/0731-7085(94)00131-K
Title:The quantitative determination of aspirin and its degradation products in a model solution aerosol
Authors:F.E. BlondinoP.R. Byron
Absract:Formulation of pressurized aerosol solutions in propellants for inhalation-requires the use of high quantities of surfactants to solubilize the drug. Due to the lipophilic nature of these surfactants, analytical difficulties are created for those wishing to quantify the drug and its degradation products. In order to quantify drug and degradation products by LC it is necessary to separate surfactant and analytes prior to chromatography. To illustrate a typical situation, a method was developed for the analysis of acetylsalicyclic acid (≃2.5 x 10@sup_begin-3@sup_end M) and its major degradation products (salicylic acid, acetylsalicylsalicylic acid and salicylsalicylic acid) solubilized in trichloromonofluoromethane (CFC-11) containing 10@sup_begin-2@sup_end M sorbitan trioleate (Span 85®). Surfactant extraction problems were reviewed experimentally. The presentation of all analytes and the surfactant, dissolved in hexane, to silica solid phase extraction columns, followed by elution in a polar solvent, was found to be an efficient way of separating this lipophilic surfactant from the analytes. The final assay employed propellant evaporation, reconstitution of the non-volatiles in hexane, normal phase solid phase extraction (recoveries of 100 ± 10% were observed for all analytes), elution and dilution with mobile phase, and reversed-phase liquid chromatography (Econosphere® C@sub_begin8@sub_end 5 μm, 4.6 x 250 mm). The assay utilized a mobile phase of water, methanol, tetrahydrofuran and 1 M phosphoric acid with ultraviolet detection at 275 nm. Using external standards, linear calibration curves of peak height versus concentration were obtained for all analytes in the expected concentration ranges (r > 0.991). As it is described, the assay had a relative standard deviation of ≤3.7% for all analytes.

doi:10.1007/s40268-017-0196-6
Title:Identification of Polymorphic Forms of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient in Low-Concentration Dry Powder Formulations by Synchrotron X-Ray Powder Diffraction
Authors:K. EgusaF. OkazakiJ. SchieweU. WerthmannM. Wolkenhauer
Absract:Background: The identification of different (pseudo) polymorphs of an active pharmaceutical ingredient in dry powder formulations is of importance during development and entire product lifecycle, e.g., quality control. Whereas determination of polymorphic differences of pure substances is rather easy, in dry powder formulations, it is generally difficult and the difficulties increase particularly, if the substance of interest is present only in low concentrations in the formulation. Such a formulation is Spiriva@sup_begin®@sup_end inhalation powder (Boehringer Ingelheim), which contains only 0.4 w/w% of the active pharmaceutical ingredient tiotropium bromide monohydrate in a matrix of α-lactose monohydrate as excipient. Methods: In this study, identification of 0.4 w/w% tiotropium bromide in the dry powder formulation was examined by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) using a synchrotron radiation source and the results were compared with the conventional laboratory XRPD measurements. Results: The detection limit of tiotropium bromide by the laboratory XRPD was around 2–5 w/w%, and hence, detection of 0.4 w/w% tiotropium bromide was impossible. The synchrotron XRPD was capable to detect significantly lower level of tiotropium bromide by at least an order of magnitude. Conclusion: Four different polymorphic forms of tiotropium bromide present at 0.4 w/w% concentration in lactose powder blends were unambiguously identified by the synchrotron XRPD method.

doi:10.3390/molecules200610264
Title:Sevoflurane-Sulfobutylether-β-Cyclodextrin Complex: Preparation, Characterization, Cellular Toxicity, Molecular Modeling and Blood-Brain Barrier Transport Studies
Authors:S. ShityakovI. PuskásK. PápaiE. SalvadorN. RoewerC. FörsterJ.-A. Broscheit
Absract:The objective of the present investigation was to study the ability of sulfobutylether-β-cyclodextrin (SBEβCD) to form an inclusion complex with sevoflurane (SEV), a volatile anesthetic with poor water solubility. The inclusion complex was prepared, characterized and its cellular toxicity and blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeation potential of the formulated SEV have also been examined for the purpose of controlled drug delivery. The SEV-SBEβCD complex was nontoxic to the primary brain microvascular endothelial (pEND) cells at a clinically relevant concentration of sevoflurane. The inclusion complex exhibited significantly higher BBB permeation profiles as compared with the reference substance (propranolol) concerning calculated apparent permeability values (Papp). In addition, SEV binding affinity to SBEβCD was confirmed by a minimal Gibbs free energy of binding (ΔGbind) value of -1.727 ± 0.042 kcal·mol-1 and an average binding constant (Kb) of 53.66 ± 9.24 mM indicating rapid drug liberation from the cyclodextrin amphiphilic cavity. 

doi:10.1007/s10928-012-9259-z
Title:A geometrical approach to the PKPD modelling of inhaled bronchodilators
Authors:C. GazG. CremonaS. PanunziB. PattersonA. De Gaetano
Absract:The present work introduces a new method to model the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of an inhaled dose of bronchodilator, alternative to classic compartmental representations or computational fluid dynamics. A five compartment PK model comprising alimentary tract absorption (gut), bronchial tree mucosa, bronchial muscles, plasma, and elimination/excretion pathways has been developed. Many anatomical and physiological features of the bronchial tree depend on bronchial generation or on mean distance from the larynx. Among these are diameters, resistances, and receptor density, which determine together the local response to the inhaled drug; integrating these local responses over the whole bronchial tree allows an approximation of total bronchodilator response and airflow resistance. While the PK part of the model reflects classical compartmental assumptions, the PD part adds a simplified geometrical and functional description of the bronchial tree to a typical empirical model of local effect on bronchial muscle, leading to the direct computation of the approximate forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1). In the present work the construction of the model is detailed, with reference to literature data. Simulation of a hypothetical asthmatic subject is employed to illustrate the behaviour of the model in representing the evolution over time of the distribution and pharmacological effect of an inhaled dose of a bronchodilator. The relevance of particle size and drug formulation diffusivity on therapeutic efficacy is discussed. © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2012.

doi:10.1097/00004424-199712000-00010
Title:Magnetic resonance imaging of pulmonary ventilation: Initial experiences with a gadolinium-DTPA-based aerosol
Authors:B. MisselwitzA. MühlerI. HeinzelmannJ.C. BöckH.-J. Weinmann
Absract:RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES. The authors investigate whether a modified gadolinium (Gd)-DTPA formulation can be aerosolized and used as a contrast agent for magnetic resonance (MR) ventilation imaging of the lungs. METHODS. Gadolinium-DTPA (gadopentetate dimeglumine, Schering AG, Berlin, Germany, 100 mmol Gd/L) was modified by addition of mannitol (Sigma, Deisenhofen, Germany, 10 mg/mL) and the surface active detergent Lutrol F68 (BASF, Mannheim, Germany, 2 mg/mL). The imaging was performed in an anesthetized rat model after inhalation of the contrast agent aerosol (PulmoSonic, DeVilbiss, Germany, 10-minute nebulization). T1-weighted spin echo images (repetitive time [TR]/echo time [TE] = 40/3 mseconds) were acquired at 2 T (SIS 85; Sisco, Fremont, CA) before and as long as 120 minutes after administration of the contrast agent. RESULTS. The modified Gd-DTPA aerosol elicited high and relatively homogeneous enhancement of the lung directly after nebulization. The enhancement was more pronounced than that obtained with a Gd-DTPA formulation without additives. CONCLUSIONS. Gadolinium-DTPA-based aerosol appears to be a suitable contrast agent for MR ventilation imaging in an experimental animal model. Modification by mannitol (to increase proton density through a slight additional osmotic effect) and a detergent (to reduce droplet size by decreasing surface tension) is suitable and effective in increasing signal intensity compared with Gd-DTPA without modification.

doi:10.1089/adt.2020.998
Title:Tuberculosis treatment facilitated by lipid nanocarriers: Can inhalation improve the regimen?
Authors:G. HadrichR.A. BoscheroA.S. AppelM. FalkembachM. MonteiroP.E.A. Da SilvaL.A. DaileyC.L. Dora
Absract:Tuberculosis (TB) remains a major global health problem. Conventional treatments fail either because of poor patient compliance with the drug regimen or due to the emergence of multidrug-resistant TB. Thus, not only has the discovery of new compounds and new therapeutic strategies been the focus of many types of research but also new routes of administration. Pulmonary drug delivery possesses many advantages, including the noninvasive route of administration, low metabolic activity, and control environment for systemic absorption, and avoids first-pass metabolism. The use of lipid nanocarriers provides several advantages such as protection of the compound's degradation, increased bioavailability, and controlled drug release. In this study, we review some points related to how the use of lipid nanocarriers can improve TB treatment with inhaled nanomedicines. This review also discusses the current approaches and formulations developed to achieve optimal pulmonary drug delivery systems with nanocarriers targeting alveolar macrophages.

pui:36343132
Title:Desflurane: Physicochemical properties, pharmacology and clinical use
Authors:R.A. Saraiva
Absract:Background and Objectives - Following the development of nuclear chemistry with halogenate synthesis in the 50's of past century, several anesthetics were clinically studied and some of them had wide practical application. The search for the ideal agent continues. Currently, halothane, isoflurane, enflurane, sevoflurane and desflurane are in clinical use. All have advantages and disadvantages. Desflurane is the newest agent. This study aimed at describing physicochemical and pharmacological properties of desflurane and reporting clinical experiences with this agent. Contents - Physicochemical properties and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of desflurane determine its clinical use. With a low boiling point, it volatizes easily in normal operating room temperatures and its high MAC requires it to be administered in high concentrations. So, the use of low fresh gas flow and special vaporizer is recommended for it to be economically feasible. In addition, the use of coadjuvant anesthetics, such as nitrous oxide, decreases its MAC and allows it to be used in lower concentrations. Its pharmacokinetics provides fast induction and recovery being also worth mentioning that it has a highly stable molecule and is minimally metabolized, thus being well tolerated by the human body. Its pharmacodynamic repercussions are dose-dependent and similar to other potent inhalation anesthetics. Conclusions - Desflurane is an additional step in the evolution toward the ideal anesthetic agent. Its physicochemical properties give it highly desirable pharmacokinetic characteristics which provide fast induction (progression) and recovery and also minimal metabolic degradation with the lowest organic toxicity among halogenate anesthetics, in addition to strong molecular stability, even in the presence of carbon dioxide absorbents. With special attention regarding vaporization, storage, and consumption, desflurane may be used even in large scale, being economically feasible.

doi:10.1089/08942680152484090
Title:Deposition and pharmacokinetics of an HFA formulation of triamcinolone acetonide delivered by pressurized metered dose inhaler
Authors:P.H. HirstG.R. PitcairnJ.C. RichardsS. RohatagiM.S. GillenS.P. Newman
Absract:Novel formulations of asthma drugs contained in pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) are being developed containing hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellants. The objectives of this study were to assess the deposition in the lungs and oropharynx of triamcinolone acetonide (TAA; Azmacort®, Aventis Pharma, Collegeville, PA) delivered by pMDI formulated with HFA-134a, together with the pharmacokinetic profile of TAA, and to determine the extent to which the Azmacort® spacer improves targeting of TAA to the lungs. The deposition of TAA, labelled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc, was assessed by gamma scintigraphy in 10 patients with mild to moderate asthma (mean forced expiratory volume in one second [FEV1] 76% predicted), who received in randomized order three delivered (ex-device) doses of 75 μg TAA via pMDI coupled to an Azmacort® spacer (TAA - spacer), and three delivered doses of 230 μg TAA via the same device, but with the spacer removed (TAA - no spacer). Mean lung deposition expressed as mass of drug was similar for each regimen (TAA - no spacer 175 μg; TAA -spacer 188 μg), but when expressed as percentage delivered dose, lung deposition was higher for TAA-spacer (53.8%) versus TAA - no spacer (26.0%), indicating superior drug targeting for TAA - spacer. The spacer reduced oropharyngeal deposition. The pharmacokinetic data showed higher plasma levels of drug for TAA - no spacer, resulting from higher oropharyngeal deposition. "Pharmacoscintigraphic" data showed proof of concept for a novel HFA delivery system for an inhaled corticosteroid based on pulmonary targeting of drug.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_3
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery: An historical overview
Authors:M. Sanders
Absract:The history of pulmonary drug delivery is nearly as old as recorded history itself. The journey from these ancient times to today's therapeutics and delivery systems is fascinating and provides an understanding of what has driven innovation. It is also critical to understand the evolving science and technology of pulmonary drug delivery and its trajectory from the current state of the art. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1208/s12249-011-9704-0
Title:Physicochemical characterization and water vapor sorption of organic solution advanced spray-dried inhalable trehalose microparticles and nanoparticles for targeted dry powder pulmonary inhalation delivery
Authors:X. LiH.M. Mansour
Absract:Novel advanced spray-dried inhalable trehalose microparticulate/ nanoparticulate powders with low water content were successfully produced by organic solution advanced spray drying from dilute solution under various spray-drying conditions. Laser diffraction was used to determine the volumetric particle size and size distribution. Particle morphology and surface morphology was imaged and examined by scanning electron microscopy. Hot-stage microscopy was used to visualize the presence/absence of birefringency before and following particle engineering design pharmaceutical processing, as well as phase transition behavior upon heating. Water content in the solid state was quantified by Karl Fisher (KF) coulometric titration. Solid-state phase transitions and degree of molecular order were examined by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and powder X-ray diffraction, respectively. Scanning electron microscopy showed a correlation between particle morphology, surface morphology, and spray drying pump rate. All advanced spray-dried microparticulate/nanoparticulate trehalose powders were in the respirable size range and exhibited a unimodal distribution. All spray-dried powders had very low water content, as quantified by KF. The absence of crystallinity in spray-dried particles was reflected in the powder X-ray diffractograms and confirmed by thermal analysis. DSC thermal analysis indicated that the novel advanced spray-dried inhalable trehalose microparticles and nanoparticles exhibited a clear glass transition (T @sub_beging@sub_end). This is consistent with the formation of the amorphous glassy state. Spray-dried amorphous glassy trehalose inhalable microparticles and nanoparticles exhibited vapor-induced (lyotropic) phase transitions with varying levels of relative humidity as measured by gravimetric vapor sorption at 25°C and 37°C. © 2011 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

pui:352728866
Title:Beclomethasone/formoterol fixed combination for the management of asthma: Patient considerations
Authors:G. NicoliniN. ScichiloneA. BizziA. PapiL.M. Fabbri
Absract:Drugs for asthma and other chronic obstructive diseases of the lungs should be preferably delivered by the inhalation route to match therapeutic effects with low systemic exposure. Inhaled drugs are delivered to the lungs via different devices, mainly metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers, each characterized by specific inhaler technique and instructions for use. The patient-device interaction is part of the prescribed therapy and can have a relevant impact on adherence and clinical outcomes. The most suitable device should be considered for each patient to assure the correct drug intake and adherence to the prescribed therapy. The development of new drugs/ devices in the past decades improved the compliance with inhaler and possibly drug delivery to the bronchi. The present review focuses on the recently developed beclomethasone/formoterol extrafine fixed combination and technical aspects of drug delivery to the lungs in patient's perspective. © 2008 Dove Medical Press Limited. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2005.11.013
Title:Design and in vitro performance testing of multiple air classifier technology in a new disposable inhaler concept (Twincer@sup_begin®@sup_end) for high powder doses
Authors:A.H. de BoerP. HagedoornE.M. WestermanP.P.H. Le BrunH.G.M. HeijermanH.W. Frijlink
Absract:Dry powder inhalation of antibiotics in cystic fibrosis (CF) therapy may be a valuable alternative for wet nebulisation, because it saves time and it improves lung deposition. In this study, it is shown that the use of multiple air classifier technology enables effective dispersion of large amounts of micronised powder (up to 25 mg). X@sub_begin50@sub_end-values of the aerosol from laser diffraction analysis obtained with the Twincer@sup_begin®@sup_end disposable inhaler concept (containing multiple air classifier technology) are practically the same as that for the pure drug in the range of dose weights between 0 and 25 mg. Only for the highest dose weights, a minor fraction (5-7.5%) of small agglomerates (5-15 μm) is released from the inhaler. Moreover, the size distribution of the aerosol is practically the same at 1 and 4 kPa. Cascade impactor results confirm the good performance of the multiple classifier concept. Unprocessed micronised particles or soft spherical agglomerates can be used, and special particle engineering processes are not necessary. Only a minor fraction of coarse sweeper crystals in the formulation is desired to reduce the total inhaler losses for colistin sulfomethate to less than 5-6% at 4 kPa. The classifiers can be designed to retain these crystals with more than 95% efficiency. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/bf02830575
Title:The influence of formulation and spacer device on the in vitro performance of solution chlorofluorocarbon-free propellant-driven metered dose inhalers
Authors:H.D.C. SmythV.P. BeckD. WilliamsA.J. Hickey
Absract:The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hypothesis that spacer devices have limited effect on the in vitro fine particle dose emitted from solution metered dose inhalers containing different proportions of HFA134a [1,1,1,2,-tetrafluoroethane] propellant. Two solution formulations (80% and 97.5% wt/wt HFA134a) were tested across the actuator alone, actuator plus Aerochamber, and Ace holding chamber. Particle size distributions were determined using laser diffraction (LD) and cascade impaction (CI). Multi-modal particle size distributions were identified using LD. CI analyses were characterized by a major mode located at ∼0.5 μm. The fine particle dose emitted from the inhaler spacer combinations containing 97.5% HFA134a was independent of the device setup used. Fine particle doses were influenced by spacer setup in 80% HFA134a formulations, indicating different plume dynamics of low vapor pressure formulations. Sampling inlet deposition was approximately 0 when spacer devices were used with either formulation. When spacers were not used, sampling inlet deposition was increased significantly. However, inlet deposition with the 97.5% HFA134a formulation was significantly less than that of the 80% HFA134a formulation (∼25% of emitted dose compared with 69%, respectively). Thus, high propellant concentration formulations appear to have more robust in vitro performance. This is particularly important given the preponderance of poor patient compliance that is associated with spacer use. High propellant concentrations had the advantage of fine particle doses that were independent of the device setup and significantly lowered sampling inlet deposition when no spacer was used.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(02)00621-X
Title:Influence of physico-chemical carrier properties on the in vitro aerosol deposition from interactive mixtures
Authors:M.D. LoueyS. RaziaP.J. Stewart
Absract:Interactive mixtures were prepared containing 5% (w/w) salbutamol sulfate using various lactose carrier systems, including sieved fractions and blended mixtures of coarse and fine particles. The solid state and powder properties of the lactose carriers were examined by laser diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry, thermogravimetric analysis, powder X-ray diffraction, vapor sorption gravimetry, rotating drum and atomic force microscopy. The in vitro aerosol deposition was determined using a twin-stage impinger with a Rotahaler at an airflow rate of 60l/min. The fine particle fraction (FPF) of salbutamol sulfate was determined using a validated HPLC assay. All samples were highly crystalline with minimal moisture sorption and the major phase in all samples was α-lactose monohydrate. Significant differences in FPF were observed using the various carrier systems. FPF increased with decreasing carrier d@sub_begin50%@sub_end (r@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.919) and increasing proportion of fine carrier particles (below 5μm) (r@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.841). Carriers consisting of very large proportions of fine particles showed low FPF and did not fit the correlation. The presence of coarse carrier particle fractions was essential to achieve maximum FPF, which occurred when about 10% of fine carrier particles were present in the mixture. Dispersion characteristics may be related to the degree of drug aggregation on the carrier surface. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1378/chest.119.4.1018
Title:Comparative in vivo lung delivery of hydrofluoroalkane-salbutamol formulation via metered-dose inhaler alone, with plastic spacer, or with cardboard tube
Authors:S.J. FowlerA.M. WilsonE.A. GriffithsB.J. Lipworth
Absract:Study objective: To compare the lung delivery of chlorofluorocarbon-free salbutamol via a pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) alone, a pMDI with a small-volume plastic spacer, and a pMDI with a cardboard tube. Design: A randomized, single (investigator)-blind, three-way, crossover study. Setting: The Asthma and Allergy Research Group, Ninewells Hospital, University of Dundee, Dundee, Scotland, UK. Participants: Twelve healthy volunteers aged 16 to 65 years. Interventions: The subjects were administered 400 mg of salbutamol via a pMDI alone, via a pMDI plus a small-volume plastic spacer, or via a pMDI plus a cardboard tube. Measurements and results: Blood samples for plasma salbutamol concentrations were taken at 5 min, 10 min, and 20 min after inhalation, to measure lung bioavailability as a surrogate for relative lung dose. The addition of the plastic spacer resulted in a significantly higher maximal plasma salbutamol concentration (CMAX) and average plasma salbutamol concentration (CAV) than the pMDI used alone. This amounted to a 1.48-fold (32%) difference (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.03 to 2.13) for CMAX and a 1.42-fold (30%) difference (95% CI, 1.01 to 2.00) for CAV. There was no significant difference in the CMAX or CAV comparing the addition of the cardboard tube with the plastic spacer or the pMDI alone. Conclusions: Using a chlorofluorocarbon-free pMDI with a plastic spacer produced statistically, but not biologically, significant greater lung delivery of salbutamol. If a spacer is required for reasons other than increasing delivered drug dose, then the addition of a readily available cardboard tube will fulfill many of the required functions with no expense to the patient.

pui:22010722
Title:Amikacin liposomes: Characterization, aerosolization, and in vitro activity against Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare in alveolar macrophages
Authors:B.V. WichertR.J. Gonzalez-RothiL.E. StraubB.M. WichertH. Schreier
Absract:A feasible way to treat pulmonary Mycobacterium avium-intracellular (MAI) infections is inhalation of liposome-encapsulated antimycobacterial agents aimed at infected alveolar macrophages (AM). To this end, amikacin-containing liposomes consisting of soy phosphatidylcholine (SPC), hydrogenated SPC (HSPC) and phosphatidylglycerol (PG) or cholesterol (CH) were prepared by extrusion and characterized with respect to drug content, encapsulation efficiency, drug retention in lung lavage fluid, stability during aerosolization, and in vitro efficacy against MAI in murine AM. Unencapsulated amikacin was separated by dialysis and ion-exchange (Amberlite IRC50) adsorption which was found to be fast, complete and less cumbersome than dialysis. Drug content increased linearly with drug concentration for a fixed lipid concentration from 1 to 12% for SPC, and from 5 to 21% for SPC/PG (7:3 molar ratio) liposomes, while the amikacin content remained constant at 0.5-1% (SPC) and 1.5-2% (SPC/PG) over a lipid concentration range of 20-160 mg/ml for a fixed amikacin concentration. With increasing lipid concentration (10-160 mg/ml), the encapsulation efficiency increased linearly for SPC liposomes (2-20%), and in a saturable fashion for SPC/PG liposomes (1-35%). Aerosolization (Collison nebulizer) over 80 min resulted in loss of content of approx. 20% (SPC and HSPC) and 30-40% (SPC/PG and SPC/CH), respectively. Incubation with fresh lung lavage fluid at 37°C resulted in poor retention of amikacin in SPC/PG liposomes, whereas SPC and SPC/CH liposomes essentially retained the drug over 24 h. A dose of 20 μg/ml amikacin when encapsulated within SPC/PG liposomes was approx. 100-times more efficacious against intracellular MAI in the infected alveolar macrophage model in vitro, than an equivalent concentration of free amikacin, indicating that uptake of drug-carrying liposomes by infected macrophages is operative.

doi:10.1208/s12248-016-0039-3
Title:Porous mannitol carrier for pulmonary delivery of cyclosporine A nanoparticles
Authors:S.S.Y. LeungJ. WongH.V. GuerraK. SamnickR.K. Prud’hommeH.-K. Chan
Absract:This study employed the ultrasonic spray-freeze-drying technique to prepare porous mannitol carriers that incorporated hydrophobic cyclosporine A (CsA) nanoparticles (NPs) for pulmonary delivery. Two nanosuspension stabilization systems, (1) a combination of lecithin and lactose system and (2) a d-α-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol succinate (TPGS) system, were investigated. The ability of the lecithin and TPGS in anchoring the hydrophobic CsA NPs to the porous hydrophilic mannitol structure was first reported. Formulations stabilized by TPGS provided a much better dose uniformity, suggesting that TPGS is a better anchoring agent compared with lecithin. The effects of mannitol carrier density and CsA loading (4.9–27%) on aerosol performance and dissolution profiles were assessed. The fine particle fraction (FPF) increased from 44 to 63% as the mannitol concentration decreased from 1 to 5%. All formulations achieved full dissolution within an hour without significant influence from the mannitol content and CsA loading. The initial dissolution rates of the present formulations were almost double than that of the spray-dried counterpart, with 90% of the drug dissolved in 10 min. Overall, the CsA NPs were successfully incorporated into the porous mannitol which demonstrated good aerosol performance and enhanced dissolution profiles. These spray-freeze-drying (SFD) powders were stable after 2-year storage under desiccation at 20 ± 3°C.

doi:10.1248/yakushi.131.1813
Title:Formulation optimization and characterization of spray dried microparticles for inhalation delivery of doxycycline hyclate
Authors:M. MishraB. Mishra
Absract:The local delivery of antibiotics in the treatment of infectious respiratory diseases is an attractive alternative to deliver high concentration of antimicrobials directly to the lungs and minimize systemic side effects. In this study, inhalable microparticles containing doxycycline hyclate, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, leucine and lactose were prepared by spray drying of aqueous ethanol formulations. Box-Behnken design was used to study the influence of various independent variables such as polymer concentration, leucine concentration, ethanol concentration and inlet temperature of the spray dryer on microparticle characteristics. The microparticles were characterized in terms of particle morphology, drug excipient interaction, yield, entrapment effciency, Carr's index, moisture content, thermal properties, X-ray powder diffraction, aerosolization performance and in vitro drug release. The effect of independent variables on spray dryer outlet temperature was also studied. The overall shape of the particles was found to be spherical like doughnuts in the size range of 1.16 5.2 μm. The optimized formulation (sodium carboxymethylcellulose concentration 14% w/v, leucine concentration 33% w/v, ethanol concentration 36% v/v, inlet temperature of 140°C) exhibited the following properties: yield 56.69%, moisture content 3.86%, encapsulation effciency 61.74%, theoretical aerodynamic diameter 3.11 μm and Carr's index 23.5% at an outlet temperature 77°C. The powders generated were of a suitable mass median aerodynamic diameter (4.89 μm) with 49.3% fine particle fraction and exhibited a sustained drug release profile in vitro. © 2011 The Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2009.11.011
Title:Tiotropium 5 μg via Respimat and 18 μg via HandiHaler; efficacy and safety in Japanese COPD patients
Authors:M. IchinoseT. FujimotoY. Fukuchi
Absract:Background and objectives: To compare the efficacy and safety of tiotropium inhaled via Respimat@sup_begin®@sup_end Soft Mist Inhaler, a multidose propellant-free inhaler and HandiHaler@sup_begin®@sup_end, a single-dose dry powder inhaler, in a phase 2 study of Japanese COPD patients. Methods: Patients with FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end ≤ 70% predicted, FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end/FVC ≤ 70% and a smoking history of >10 pack-years received tiotropium once daily via Respimat@sup_begin®@sup_end (5 μg) and HandiHaler@sup_begin®@sup_end (18 μg) for 4 weeks each in a randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, two-way crossover study. Lung function, adverse events, pharmacokinetics and safety were assessed. Results: Of 184 patients screened, 134 were evaluable. The trough FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end response on Day 29 showed Respimat@sup_begin®@sup_end to be non-inferior to HandiHaler@sup_begin®@sup_end (mean treatment difference, 0.008 L; 95% CI, -0.009 to +0.024 L; p < 0.001). Peak and average FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and FVC responses on Day 1 and Day 29 were very similar for the two treatments. Tiotropium plasma levels and excretion kinetics showed a similar profile of systemic exposure for the two formulations of tiotropium. Adverse events were reported by similar numbers of patients on each treatment, i.e. 27.9 and 30.6% in the Respimat@sup_begin®@sup_end and HandiHaler@sup_begin®@sup_end groups, respectively. Conclusions: In Japanese patients with COPD, tiotropium Respimat@sup_begin®@sup_end 5 μg and tiotropium HandiHaler@sup_begin®@sup_end 18 μg showed a similar profile of efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/jam.2007.0572
Title:Facemasks and Aerosol delivery in vivo
Authors:S. ErzingerK.G. SchueeppJ. Brooks-WildhaberS.G. DevadasonJ.H. Wildhaber
Absract:It has been shown in vitro that even a small air leak in the facemask can drastically reduce the efficiency of drug delivery. In addition, it has been shown that drug deposition on the face does significantly add to overall drug loss and has the potential of local side effects. The aim of this study is therefore to verify these findings in vivo. Eight asymptomatic recurrently wheezy children, aged 18-36 months, inhaled a radiolabeled salbutamol formulation either from a pressurized metered-dose inhaler through a spacer with attached facemask or from a nebulizer with attached facemask. Drug deposition of radiolabeled salbutamol was assessed with a gamma camera and expressed as a percentage of the total dose. Lung deposition expressed as a percentage of the total dose (metered dose and nebulizer fill, respectively) was 0.2% and 0.3% in children who inhaled with a non-tightly fitted facemask. Lung deposition was 0.6% and 1.4% in screaming children with a tightly fitted facemask and between 4.8% and 8.2% in patients breathing normally. Overall mask deposition was between 0.8% and 5.2%. Overall face deposition was between 2.6% and 8.4%. The results from this pilot study support the results found in in vitro studies, where a facemask leak greatly reduces drug delivery to the patient. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9029-y
Title:Applicability of an ultrasonic nebulization system for the airways delivery of beclomethasone dipropionate in a murine model of asthma
Authors:B. HrvačićB. BošnjakM. TudjaM. MesićM. Merćep
Absract:Purpose. We have assessed the use of an ultrasonic nebulization system (UNS), composed of ultrasonic nebulizer and diffusion dryer filled with charcoal, for the effective delivery of beclomethasone to the airways in a murine asthma model. Methods. Solution of beclomethasone in ethanol was aerosolized using an ultrasonic nebulizer. Passage of the aerosol through a drying column containing charcoal and deionizer produced dry beclomethasone particles. Particles were delivered to BALB/c mice placed in a whole-body exposition chamber 1 h before intranasal challenge with ovalbumine. Efficacy of beclomethasone delivery was evaluated by examining bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) cytology. Results. Effect of three UNS system parameters on aerosol particle size was investigated. The critical parameter affecting the size of dry particles was beclomethasone concentration in aerosolized solution and solution flow rate while power level of ultrasonic nebulizer generator had no effect. Administration of beclomethasone at calculated dose of 150 μg/kg to mice significantly decreased total cell number and relative eosinophil number in BALF. Conclusions. The UNS system produces a monodisperse aerosol that can be used for inhalative delivery of poorly water soluble substances to experimental animals. The UNS system minimizes formulation requirements and allows rapid and relatively simple efficacy and toxicity testing in animals. © 2006 Springer Science + Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1089/089426803772455677
Title:Effect of Excipients on the Stability and Aerosol Performance of Nebulized Aviscumine
Authors:H. SteckelF. EskandarK. Witthohn
Absract:Pulmonary delivery is an attractive alternative route to deliver protein drugs that are currently delivered by injection. Inhalation therapy via nebulizers is a well accepted way for pulmonary application of proteins considering the formulation difficulties of MDIs or DPIs. This research presents the effect of variable excipients on the stability and aerosol performance of freeze-dried aviscumine after reconstitution and nebulization. Aviscumine formulations containing 100 mmol/L Tris buffer, 0.1% (w/v) Polysorbate 80, 0.01% (w/v) Na@sub_begin2@sub_end-EDTA and 8% (w/v) Hydroxyethyl starch have been lyophilized and reconstituted with a buffered isotonic solution pH 8. The aviscumine activity was determined by a binding assay directly after reconstitution and after nebulization with a PariBoy® air-jet nebulizer, a Multisonic® and a Systam® ultrasonic nebulizer. The stabilization of aviscumine by the addition of variable buffer salts to the reconstitution medium, such as 50, 100, and 200 mmol/L Tris buffer, 20 and 100 mmol/L phosphate buffer, and 20 and 100 mmol/L Tricine buffer, was studied. About 50% of aviscumine activity was lost after 20 min nebulization time without any additives. Nevertheless, higher buffer concentrations confer greater stability. About 70% of the aviscumine activity could be retained by the addition 0.03% octanoyl-N-methylglucamide and 100 mmol/L Tricine to the reconstitution medium.

doi:10.1183/20734735.0328-2019
Title:Nebuliser hygiene in cystic fibrosis: Evidence-based recommendations
Authors:J. BellL. AlexanderJ. CarsonA. CrossanJ. McCaughanH. MillsD. O’neillJ.E. MooreB. Cherie Millar
Absract:Nebulised therapies are extensively used in the daily therapeutic management of cystic fibrosis both for mucociliary clearance and for the management of chronic infections. Extensive developments have been made in relation to nebulised drug delivery mechanisms and drug formulations, and guidelines have been prepared that have addressed the appropriate use of such therapies. However, due to these developments, a plethora of nebuliser devices and drug chambers exist, and frequently, the limited guidance provided in relation to nebuliser hygiene is to follow manufacturers’ instructions. Such instructions are inconsistent and at times confusing, translating to an increase in the burden associated with nebuliser maintenance. An evidence-based universal guideline relating to nebuliser care and hygiene is urgently required that is applicable to both at-home use and inpatient use. This article reviews the scientific literature in order to propose an evidence-based approach to nebuliser hygiene to ensure optimum drug delivery, and infection prevention and control.

doi:10.22377/ajp.v13i04.3408
Title:Effect of polymer concentration on micromeritics, kinetics, and activity of ciprofloxacin HCl-alginate microspheres
Authors:D.M. HariyadiE. Hendradi
Absract:Purpose: This research was to design a sustain release system for ciprofloxacin HCl for inhalation delivery. Ciprofloxacin HCl was encapsulated with alginate polymer by aerosolization ionotropic gelation. Materials and Methods: Ciprofloxacin HCl-alginate microspheres formula consisted of 0.5–1.35% alginate polymer. Micromeritic properties, in vitro release, and kinetics of the formulations were characterized. Micromeritics properties were studied in terms of bulk and tapped density, Carr index, and Hausner ratio. In vitro drug release was studied in phosphate-buffered saline media pH 7.2 for 12 h. This research also studied the activity of ciprofloxacin HCl-alginate microspheres. Antibacterial activity test was carried out using in vitro diffusion technique using Staphylococcus aureus ATCC 25923 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa ATCC 27853 bacteria. Results: Release mechanism followed Higuchi model kinetics. The obtained freeze-dried microspheres showed good flow properties. From all formulas against S. aureus ATCC 25923, it was indicated that activity of all formula microspheres had higher activity compared to ciprofloxacin HCl and more stable. However, for formula against P. aeruginosa ATCC 27853, results showed that ciprofloxacin HCl was only effective at above 0.75% of alginate polymer. Furthermore, the encapsulation process and pH exposure did not affect in activity of ciprofloxacin HCl. Conclusion: These concluded that ciprofloxacin HCl-alginate microspheres were stable and potential for antibacterial activity.

doi:10.1248/yakushi.18-00157
Title:Optimization of nasal drug absorption from powder formulations: The feasibility of controlling drug absorption by the use of pharmaceutical excipients
Authors:A. Tanaka
Absract:Nasal application of powder formulations has garnered attention because of its significant potential for systemic drug delivery. Because a powder drug must first diffuse from the formulation and dissolve in the nasal cavity fluid before transepithelial permeation, dissolution and diffusion are distinct but important factors for nasal drug absorption. Since the formulation is directly administered onto the nasal mucosal surface, the effect of excipients on drug absorption may be significant. Therefore, the influence of excipients on nasal drug absorption was evaluated. Three types of hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC) [HPC (SL), HPC (M), and HPC (H)], lactose, and sodium chloride (NaCl) were used as excipients. Warfarin (WF), piroxicam (PXC), sumatriptan (STP), and norfloxacin (NFX) were selected as model drugs. HPC (M) enhanced the absorption of PXC, while both HPC (M) and HPC (H) enhanced the absorption of STP. All three HPCs failed to enhance the absorption of WF. An increase in the polymerization degree of HPCs decreased the diffusion of drugs in HPC solutions, but prolonged their nasal retention. Lactose and NaCl increased the fluid volume on the nasal mucosal surface by increasing the osmotic pressure, thereby enhancing the nasal absorption of PXC and NFX; however, lactose and NaCl accelerated the nasal clearance of these. These results indicate that nasal drug absorption from powder formulations can be controlled by excipients.

doi:10.1002/jps.21673
Title:Simultaneously Manufactured Nano-In-Micro (SIMANIM) particles for dry-powder modified-release delivery of antibodies
Authors:R.S. KayeT.S. PurewalH.O. Alpar
Absract:Simultaneously Manufactured Nano-In-Micro (SIMANIM) particles for the pulmonary delivery of antibodies have been prepared by the spray-drying of a double-emulsion containing human IgG (as a model antibody), lactose, poly(lactide-coglycolide) (PLGA) and dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC). The one-step drying process involved producing microparticles of a diameter suitable for inhalation that upon contact with aqueous media, partially dissolved to form nanoparticles, ∼10-fold smaller than their original diameter. Continuous release of the model antibody was observed for 35 days in pH 2.5 release media, and released antibody was shown to be stable and active by gel electrophoresis, field-flow fractionation and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. Adding 1% L-leucine to the emulsion formulation, and blending 'SIMANIM' particles with 1% magnesium stearate, achieved a fine particle fraction of ∼60%, when aerosolised from a simple, capsule-based, dry powder inhaler device. 'SIMANIM' particles could be beneficial for the delivery of antibodies targeted against inhaled pathogens or other extracellular antigens, as well as having potential applications in the delivery of a wide range of other biopharmaceuticals and certain smallmolecule drugs. © 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

pui:43950063
Title:Ciclesonide for the treatment of asthma
Authors:R. Dahl
Absract:Ciclesonide is a nonhalogenated corticosteroid that is converted to its clinically active metabolite, desisobutyryl-ciclesonide, by esterases in the airways. Pharmacodynamic studies have shown that inhaled ciclesonide has potent antiinflammatory activity in patients with asthma, and does not appear to have clinically relevant systemic effects, even at high doses. It is highly protein-bound and rapidly metabolized by the liver, and thus has a low oral bioavailability. Ciclesonide is formulated as a solution for inhalation using a hydrofluoroalkane pressurized metered-dose inhaler. This formulation delivers a high fraction of respirable particles that yield high lung deposition with even distribution throughout the lungs and minimal oropharyngeal deposition. Results from numerous 12-week trials in patients (including children) with varying degrees of asthma show that morning or evening dosing with ciclesonide is more effective than placebo, and at least equivalent to other inhaled corticosteroids such as budesonide and fluticasone, with regard to improved spirometry, symptom scores, and less need for rescue medication. Results with once-daily ciclesonide are similar to those with twice-daily budesonide or fluticasone. At the dosages used in clinical trials, ciclesonide did not exert any untoward adverse effects and did not affect cortisol production. The favorable pharmacological properties of ciclesonide help explain the low incidence of adverse events, which are mostly mild to moderate in nature. Once-daily ciclesonide offers an efficacious treatment option for stepwise asthma management when inhaled corticosteroids are required. © 2006 Dove Medical Press Limited. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0969-8051(02)00284-6
Title:Supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end fluid radiochromatography system used to purify [@sup_begin11@sup_endC]toluene for PET
Authors:R.D. MullerR.A. FerrieriM. GerasimovV. Garza
Absract:Abuse of inhalants in today's society has become such a widespread problem among today's adolescents that in many parts of the world their use exceeds that of many other illicit drugs or alcohol. Even so, little is known how such inhalants affect brain function to an extent that can lead to an abuse liability. While methodologies exist for radiolabeling certain inhalants of interest with short-lived positron emitting radioisotopes that would allow their investigation in human subjects using positron emission tomography (PET), the purification methodologies necessary to separate these volatile substances from the organic starting materials have not been developed. We've adapted supercritical fluid technology to this specific PET application by building a preparative-scale supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end fluid radiochromatograph, and applied it to the purification of [@sup_begin11@sup_endC]toluene. We've demonstrated that [@sup_begin11@sup_endC]toluene can be separated from the starting materials using a conventional C@sub_begin18@sub_end HPLC column and pure supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end fluid as the mobile phase operating at 2000 psi and 40°C. We've also shown that the purified radiotracer can be quantitatively captured on Tenax GR, a solid support material, as it exits the supercritical fluid stream, thus allowing for later desorption into a 1.5% cyclodextrin solution that is suitable for human injection, or into a breathing tube for direct inhalation. © 2002 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1081/DDC-100000132
Title:Development of a lyophilized formulation for (R,R)-formoterol (L)-tartrate
Authors:L. KirschS. ZhangW. MuangsiriM. RedmonP. LunerD. Wurster
Absract:(R,R)-formoterol is a β-agonist for inhalation. Aqueous instability suggested the need for a reconstitutable lyophilized dosage form. The objective of these studies was to devise a stable, rapid-dissolving, therapeutically compatible dosage form. The effects of diluents and residual moisture on the stability of thermally stressed formoterol formulations were investigated. Drug and various excipients (acetate, lactose, and mannitol) Were lyophilized and placed in humidity chambers (0 to 90% relative humidity) at 25 to 50°C. Stability was characterized by time-dependent changes using HPLC, pH, and XRD. Residual moistures were determined by Karl Fisher methods. Regression models were developed to quantify the effects of formulation and environmental variation on drug stability. Solid-state instability was observed as a function of high residual moisture and diluent type. Although the residual moistures in mannitol formulations were typically below 1%, the degradation rate (50°C) varied from 2 to 10 mcg/day, which was 1.3- to 20-fold high than observed for lactose formulations under the same relative humidity conditions. At high relative humidity, the presence of acetate significantly increased the degradation rate (p < 0.04). The critical residual moisture content for lactose formulations was 3%. The amount of lactose was optimized by evaluating the degradation over the temperature range 25 to 50°C. Mannitol and acetate were shown to be unsuitable excipients, and an optimal lactose amount was 50 mg for vials containing 50 mcg of drug.

pui:26014405
Title:Colds and sore throats
Authors:A. Nathan
Absract:For some products for colds and 'flu there is little evidence of effectiveness, and others might be regarded as examples of inappropriate polypharmacy. Nevertheless, two factors create a strong demand for these: the desire of sufferers to alleviate their symptoms and their willingness to try anything that might bring relief, and the expectations created by advertising. Thus, while 'all in one' night-time cold treatments or antihistamine/decongestant combinations might not accord with the principles of rational product selection, there is a heavy demand for them. Some formulations can, however, be recommended with confidence that they are rational and normally effective choices, while others will provide some symptomatic relief and are harmless. These include: For colds and (flu with nasal congestion (for normal healthy adults) Analgesics/antipyretics combined with sympathomimetic decongestants, eg, paracetamol/phenylpropanolamine or ibuprofen/pseudoephedrine. Available as tablets or as powders to prepare hot drinks, the making of a hot drink may add to any placebo effect. For nasal congestion Decongestant nasal sprays (drops for children), eg, xylometazoline. Inhalations - menthol and eucalyptus inhalation; inhalant oils leg, Karvol capsules, Olbas) and salves leg, Vicks Vaporub) may be preferred for convenience. For sore, 'tickly' throat Demulcent pastilles, eg, glycerin, lemon and honey. For sore throat with discomfort on swallowing Lozenges containing benzocaine or lignocaine. Benzocaine spray.

doi:10.1016/j.biomaterials.2019.119575
Title:Fumaryl diketopiperazine based effervescent microparticles to escape macrophage phagocytosis for enhanced treatment of pneumonia via pulmonary delivery
Authors:Q. WangY. ShenG. MiD. HeY. ZhangY. XiongT.J. WebsterJ. Tu
Absract:The treatment of pulmonary infections with antibiotics administered via pulmonary delivery provides for higher local therapeutic efficacy rather than through systemic administration. Pneumonia is globally considered a major cause of death due to a lack of proper medication. The treatment of pneumonia with inhalable antibiotics (such as azithromycin (AZM)) can provide a maximum pulmonary therapeutic effect without significant systemic side effects. Compared to non-effervescent microparticles, effervescent microparticles can provide an active driving force to release loaded antibiotics for subsequent distribution deep into the lung by virtue of its smaller size. In this study, N-fumaroylated diketopiperazine (FDKP) was used as a carrier to prepare effervescent inhalable microparticles loaded with AZM (AZM@FDKP-E-MPs). This effervescent dry powder was characterized for both in vitro and in vivo deposition in the lung and the results obtained showed significant improvement in lung deposition and anti-bacterial efficiency, suggesting a strong potential application for pneumonia treatment.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:L-leucine coated inhalable teicoplanin powders produced by aerosol flow reactor method
Authors:N. UgurL.M. BimboP. SarisV. VartiainenJ. HirvonenE.I. KauppinenJ. Raula
Absract:Bacterial infection of the respiratory tract requires a challenging treatment due to the low concentration of antibiotics in the lungs. Teicoplanin has low penetration into the lung tissue when administered intravenously. The purpose of this research is to provide highly dispersible, stable teicoplanin formulations to target respiratory infections in order to enhance antibiotic concentration locally and to reduce systemic exposure of the antibiotic. Inhalable teicoplanin powder (TEI-L) was prepared by aerosol flow reactor method with a temperature pulse from precursor solution of teicoplanin, trehalose, L-leucine, sodium citrate. SEM images of TEIL showed separated particles with spherical, partly-buckled shapes. Mass median aerodynamic diameter of the particles was 1,1μm. Aerosolization of TEI-L, measured with an inhalation testing device, showed that emitted dose was 2,4 mg/dose and fine particle fraction was 46%. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of TEI-L and pristine teicoplanin (TEI) was <25 μM (Staphylococcus aureus). In addition, TEI-L and TEI had same concentration-dependent inhibition zone diameter values. HPLC analysis of TEI-L and TEI samples indicated similar corresponding solute peaks at the same retention time. Inhalable teicoplanin formulation was dispersible and temperature pulse for the leucine coating did not affect the antibiotic activity of teicoplanin. Cytocompatibility and drug permeation properties of the formulation will be further investigated.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Controlling the size of nebulised droplets by pinning surface waves for precise delivery of aerosolised medicine
Authors:E. NazarzadehN. LomisX. KingR. WilsonM. TassieriJ. ReboudJ. CooperS. Prakash
Absract:The effective delivery of medication to the lungs via the inhalation of aerosols is strongly dependent upon the droplet size distribution; i.e., optimum pulmonary drug delivery occurs when the size falls between 1 and 5 lm in diameter. In this study, we investigated the formation of aerosols by means of surface acoustic waves (SAWs) and developed a new solution to control the droplet size distribution within the required range. The acoustic waves were coupled into a microfabricated array of microconfinements of the liquid sample to be nebulised. The therapeutic suspension also advantageously act as the acoustic coupling agent. SAWs were generated on the surface of a piezoelectric substrate and the nebulisation process was monitored by a high-speed camera (100,000 fps) and the particles size distribution measured by a Spraytec (Malvern Panalytical). We show that the physical confinement within the microstructures controls the wavelength of the deformation of the liquid, which allows us to precisely tailor the droplet size distribution of the aerosols to the optimum range for drug delivery (1 to 5lm). We also validated the applicability of the technique, by nebulising drug-loaded nanoparticles. Importantly, the control of the acoustic energy into the microstructures enables the direct formulation of encapsulated compounds from base materials (i.e. the compound and the shell). This new capability offers the possibility of nebulising formulations that have a short shelf-life when encapsulated. As a proof-of-concept, we demonstrate this by forming and nebulising the cancer drug Paclitaxel, encapsulated in ca. 250 nm human serum albumin particles.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.12.026
Title:Nebulized solid lipid nanoparticles for the potential treatment of pulmonary hypertension via targeted delivery of phosphodiesterase-5-inhibitor
Authors:S. MakledN. NafeeN. Boraie
Absract:Phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE-5) inhibitors – among which sildenafil citrate (SC) – play a primary role in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PH). Yet, SC can be only administered orally or parenterally with lot of risks. Targeted delivery of SC to the lungs via inhalation/nebulization is mandatory. In this study, solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) loaded with SC were prepared and characterized in terms of colloidal, morphological and thermal properties. The amount of drug loaded and its release behavior were estimated as a function of formulation variables. The potential of lipid nanocarriers to retain their properties following nebulization and autoclaving was investigated. In addition, toxicity aspects of plain and loaded SLNs on A549 cells were studied with respect to concentration. Spherical SLNs in the size range (100–250 nm) were obtained. Particles ensured high encapsulation efficiency (88–100%) and sustained release of the payload over 24 h. Cell-based viability experiments revealed a concentration-dependant toxicity for both plain and loaded SLNs recording an IC@sub_begin50@sub_end of 516 and 384 μg/mL, respectively. Nebulization with jet nebulizer and sterilization via autoclaving affected neither the colloidal stability of SLNs nor the drug entrapment, proving their potential as pulmonary delivery system. Interaction of SLNs with mucin was a function of the emulsifier coating layer. Results yet seeking clinical evidence – might give promises of new therapy for PH of higher safety, better performance and higher patient compliance.

pui:634124242
Title:Preparation and Evaluation of Microparticles Containing Tadalafil Loaded Polymeric Nanoparticles for Treatment of Pulmonary Hypertension
Authors:S. TaymouriR. VatankhahS. Yaqoubi
Absract:Introduction: Inhalable dry powders containing PLGA nanoparticles (NPs) were developed for the delivery of Tadalafil (TAD) in treatment of life treating pulmonary arterial hypertension. Methods: Taguchi design was employed to evaluate the effects of different formulation variables on the physicochemical characteristics of NPs prepared using emulsion solvent evaporation method. Inhalable PLGA NPs of TAD were successfully prepared by co-spray drying the NPs with inert carriers. Physicochemical characteristics and in vitro deposition of the aerosolized drug were also evaluated Results: The optimized formulation was prepared using 7.5 mg of PLGA, 2.5 mg of TAD, sonication time of 6 min and 2% PVA as the stabilizer. The optimized aqueous/oil phase ratio for NPs preparation was 10:1. Polymer/drug ratio was the most effective parameter on the release efficiency. Encapsulation efficiency, zeta potential and particle size of NPs were more affected by aqueous/organic phase ratio. The spray dried powders containing NPs had a mass median aerodynamic diameter in the range of 1.4a-2.8 μm that was suitable for TAD delivery to deep region of lung. The presence of L-leucine in mannitol containing formulations decreased the interparticulate forces between particles and resulted in remarkable increase of yield as well as FPF of particles. Conclusion: The results indicated that prepared dry powders containing TAD loaded PLGA NPs were suitable for inhalation and had potential for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2015.1056148
Title:Industry guidance for the selection of a delivery system for the development of novel respiratory products
Authors:J.N. Pritchard
Absract:Introduction: Respiratory diseases remain a target for improved forms of inhalation therapy. However, there are neither regulatory preferences for one type of device over another, nor well-recognized guidelines. This guidance describes factors that should be considered to optimize the choice of delivery system. Areas covered: This article summarizes the different types of delivery systems with key technical and commercial considerations for selection. It highlights current market trends and opportunities for the future, based on the authors experience of more than 20 years in this field. Expert opinion: For a generic drug, low device cost favors a capsule dry powder inhaler (DPI) or a propellant-based metered-dose inhaler (pMDI). Novel particle engineering approaches may allow close matching to the innovator product performance. For novel drugs, most companies favor a bespoke DPI, adding patent protection and aiding brand recognition, despite being expensive to develop. Device features may add differentiation, but "no outcome, no income." Patient technique and adherence remain problematic, compounded by age, although accessories, including monitors, can help. There are few modern medicines available in nebulized form, so there is value in fast-tracking the nebulized formulations from Phase I studies through to market in parallel to the chosen inhaler.

doi:10.1007/s11095-008-9586-3
Title:Production of ultrafine sumatriptan succinate particles for pulmonary delivery
Authors:Z.-Y. YangY. LeT.-T. HuZ. ShenJ.-F. ChenJ. Yun
Absract:Purpose. Drug particle physical properties are critical for the efficiency of a drug delivered to the lung. The purpose of this study was to produce ultrafine sumatriptan succinate particles for inhalation. Methods. Sumatriptan succinate particles were produced via reactive precipitation without any surfactants. Several low toxic organic solvents such as acetone, isopropanol, and tetrahydrofuran were investigated as the reaction medium. And the dry powder was obtained via spray drying. FT-IR, HPLC, SEM and XRD were exploited to characterize the physicochemical properties of the ultrafine sumatriptan succinate dry powder. The aerosol performance of the powder was evaluated using an Aeroliser®connected to a multi stage liquid impinger operating at 60 l/min. Results. The mean particle size of the ultrafine sumatriptan succinate particles obtained under optimum conditions was in the range of 630∼679 nm and consequently they were in the respirable range. The spray-dried powder whose fine particle fraction was increased up to 50.6 ± 8.2% showed good aerosol performance whereas the vacuum-dried powder was approximate 18.2 ± 3.0%. Conclusions. Good aerosol performance ultrafine sumatriptan succinate particles could be produced by reactive precipitation without any additives followed by spray drying at the optimum parameters. © 2008 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1185/030079907X226177
Title:Part III: Location of asthma inflammation and the distal airways: Clinical implications
Authors:M. Kraft
Absract:Accumulating evidence suggests that the airway inflammation and remodeling characteristic of asthma occur not only in the central airways, but also in the distal lung and the lung parenchyma. The distal airways are increasingly being recognized as important sites of airflow obstruction. Research indicates that distal inflammation may play a crucial role in airway hyperresponsiveness, nocturnal asthma, and spontaneous exacerbations of asthma symptoms. Although the effectiveness of inhaled corticosteroids in improving asthmatic symptoms and preventing exacerbations is well established, the ability of conventional formulations to reach the distal airways is limited. The impaired ability of these formulations to reach the distal airways may contribute to the observation that inhaled corticosteroids do not always provide adequate control of asthma symptoms. Newer formulations of inhaled corticosteroids that use hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellants in solution have greater access to the distal airways and produce beneficial changes in lung function. Due to their highly targeted delivery systems, newer HFA-based formulations have the potential to effectively treat asthma at reduced doses. © 2007 Librapharm Limited.

pui:40297943
Title:Applying advanced delivery technologies to enable and improve drug development. 8-9 December 2004, London, UK
Authors:I.F. Uchegbu
Absract:This meeting was predominantly industry-focused with the clear message that drug delivery technologies, both emerging and tested, are poised to fill the gap left by a shortage of new chemical entities. These technologies are capable of improving the bioavailability of existing compounds and some drug delivery-enhanced medicines, such as liposomal and depot preparations, are already improving the lives of patients. The need to maintain commercial competitiveness resulted in disclosure constraints, with some presentations being generic in nature. Only a few of the papers described recently published or unpublished technological advances. However, the meeting provided an excellent venue to make contacts, thus proving to be an invaluable networking opportunity. © The Thomson Corporation.

doi:10.3389/fphar.2018.01365
Title:A systematic review on the pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol in humans
Authors:S.A. MillarN.L. StoneA.S. YatesS.E. O'Sullivan
Absract:Background: Cannabidiol is being pursued as a therapeutic treatment for multiple conditions, usually by oral delivery. Animal studies suggest oral bioavailability is low, but literature in humans is not sufficient. The aim of this review was to collate published data in this area. Methods: A systematic search of PubMed and EMBASE (including MEDLINE) was conducted to retrieve all articles reporting pharmacokinetic data of CBD in humans. Results: Of 792 articles retireved, 24 included pharmacokinetic parameters in humans. The half-life of cannabidiol was reported between 1.4 and 10.9 h after oromucosal spray, 2–5 days after chronic oral administration, 24 h after i.v., and 31 h after smoking. Bioavailability following smoking was 31% however no other studies attempted to report the absolute bioavailability of CBD following other routes in humans, despite i.v formulations being available. The area-under-the-curve and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end increase in dose-dependent manners and are reached quicker following smoking/inhalation compared to oral/oromucosal routes. C@sub_beginmax@sub_end is increased during fed states and in lipid formulations. T@sub_beginmax@sub_end is reached between 0 and 4 h. Conclusions: This review highlights the paucity in data and some discrepancy in the pharmacokinetics of cannabidiol, despite its widespread use in humans. Analysis and understanding of properties such as bioavailability and half-life is critical to future therapeutic success, and robust data from a variety of formulations is required.

doi:10.1691/ph.2016.5144
Title:Carrier free dry powder formulation of sildenafil for potential application in pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:S. GhanbarzadehY. SaeeneyaH. ValizadehA. NokhodchiH. Hamishehkar
Absract:The present study was designed to prepare sildenafil carrier free dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulation for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH). Sildenafil DPI formulations were fabricated by spray drying technique. The ideal formulation was optimized using different solvent type (methanol, dimethylformamide and water), concentration (5 and 50 mg/mL) and pH (2 and 7.4) of feed solution. Particles size distribution, morphology and crystallinity of fabricated microparticles were evaluated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) methods, respectively. The aerosolization efficiency of formulations were assessed by next generation impactor equipped with an Aerolizer®. Results indicated that evaluated variables had great impacts on powder characteristics which significantly influenced aerosolization performance of formulations. The aerosolized fraction of formulations was improved from 2 to 70 % by changing in solvent type and drug concentration in spray dryer feeding solution. Aerosolization performance of powders were well correlated and interpreted by their morphologies as depicted from SEM images. DSC results also indicated that crystallinity of all formulations were reduced by spray drying procedure. Optimization of spray drying technique for production of Sildenafil carrier free DPI formulation in this study may pave a way for locally treatment of IPAH.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2014.12.050
Title:Formulation and characterization of inhalable magnetic nanocomposite microparticles (MnMs) for targeted pulmonary delivery via spray drying
Authors:N.A. StockeS.A. MeenachS.M. ArnoldH.M. MansourJ.Z. Hilt
Absract:Targeted pulmonary delivery facilitates the direct application of bioactive materials to the lungs in a controlled manner and provides an exciting platform for targeting magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) to the lungs. Iron oxide MNPs remotely heat in the presence of an alternating magnetic field (AMF) providing unique opportunities for therapeutic applications such as hyperthermia. In this study, spray drying was used to formulate magnetic nanocomposite microparticles (MnMs) consisting of iron oxide MNPs and d-mannitol. The physicochemical properties of these MnMs were evaluated and the in vitro aerosol dispersion performance of the dry powders was measured by the Next Generation Impactor@sup_begin®@sup_end. For all powders, the mass median aerosol diameter (MMAD) was <5 μm and deposition patterns revealed that MnMs could deposit throughout the lungs. Heating studies with a custom AMF showed that MNPs retain excellent thermal properties after spray drying into composite dry powders, with specific absorption ratios (SAR) > 200 W/g, and in vitro studies on a human lung cell line indicated moderate cytotoxicity of these materials. These inhalable composites present a class of materials with many potential applications and pose a promising approach for thermal treatment of the lungs through targeted pulmonary administration of MNPs.

doi:10.1016/j.colsurfb.2017.03.044
Title:Rifampicin loaded chitosan nanoparticle dry powder presents: An improved therapeutic approach for alveolar tuberculosis
Authors:T. RawalR. ParmarR.K. TyagiS. Butani
Absract:Current treatment therapeutic approach for tuberculosis is the administration of first line drugs in the form of tablets and capsules for 4–6 months. However, this approach leads to severe adverse effects. Therefore, present study was designed to achieving local and sustained targeting of anti-tubercular drugs in order to reduce dose and frequency. The nanoparticle based dry powder formulation of rifampicin was developed and analyzed with respect to its direct targeting potential of lungs. Rifampicin loaded nanoparticles were formulated by ionic gelation probe sonication method, and characterized with respect to particle size, zeta potential, entrapment and drug loading efficiency. The range of size and entrapment efficiency of prepared nanoparticles was estimated from 124.1 ± 0.2 to 402.3 ± 2.8 nm and 72.00 ± 0.1%, respectively. The freeze-dried powder of nanoparticle formulation was used to carry out in vitro lung deposition studies through Andersen cascade impactor. The cumulative in vitro drug release studies with developed nanoparticle formulation showed sustained release up to 24 h. Our in vitro sustained drug release results were corroborated by the extended residence and slow clearance of rifampicin from the lungs. Furthermore, our results suggest the minimum lung distribution of drug in treated rats which confirms the negligible toxicity rendered by nanoparticle dry powder formulation. Moreover, pharmacokinetic and toxicity studies carried out with prepared NPs dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations and compared with conventional DPI

doi:10.5505/tjps.2016.46330
Title:The application of different microencapsulation methods and formulation parameters on antibiotic loaded PLGA microparticles for pulmonary delivery
Authors:B. DevrimM. Alemdar
Absract:Inhaled anti-infective drugs play a pivotal role in the prophylaxis and treatment of respiratory tract infections. In this study, fluoroquinolone antibiotic levofloxacin hemihydrate-loaded PLGA microparticles were prepared and evaluated. PLGA microparticles were prepared using three different preparation methods such as oil-in-water (o/w), water-in-oil-in-water (w@sub_begin1@sub_end/o/w@sub_begin2@sub_end) and modified water-inoil- in-water (w@sub_begin1@sub_end/o/w@sub_begin3@sub_end) emulsion solvent evaporation methods. Effects of preparation methods and formulation parameters on physicochemical properties of microparticles characterized in terms of the particle size, encapsulation efficiency, production yield, in vitro release and aerodynamic properties were evaluated. Particle size results showed that the increasing volume of dichlorometane in the organic phase caused a significant decrease in particle size of microparticles. Microparticles prepared by using o/w emulsion solvent evaporation method showed a higher encapsulation efficiency value compared to those prepared with double emulsion methods. Biphasic extended-release profile was produced in vitro. All formulations prepared except of F1 coded formulation were of suitable aerodynamic size for inhalation having a mass median aerodynamic diameter less than 5 μm. These results showed that levofloxacin hemihydrate-loaded PLGA microparticles could be a potential alternative to the existing levofloxacin therapy in respiratory tract infections.

doi:10.1007/s11095-014-1369-4
Title:Isothermal Microcalorimetry of pressurized systems I: A rapid method to evaluate pressurized metered dose inhaler formulations
Authors:D.J. D'SaD. Lechuga-BallesterosH.-K. Chan
Absract:Purpose: The techniques available to study formulation stability in pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) are limited, due to the challenging conditions of working with high pressure propellants. Isothermal microcalorimetry is a valuable tool used to screen and aid in formulation development of solid and solution drug formulations; however there are currently no available methods to evaluate pMDIs. In this paper, we have developed a method that allows measurement of such pressurized systems.

doi:10.2174/138920112802273308
Title:Calcium and zinc DTPA administration for internal contamination with plutonium-238 and americium-241
Authors:Z.N. KazziA. HeylJ. Ruprecht
Absract:The accidental or intentional release of plutonium or americium can cause acute and long term adverse health effects if they enter the human body by ingestion, inhalation, or injection. These effects can be prevented by rapid removal of these radionuclides by chelators such as calcium or zinc diethylenetriaminepentaacetate (calcium or zinc DTPA). These compounds have been shown to be efficacious in enhancing the elimination of members of the actinide family particularly plutonium and americium when administered intravenously or by nebulizer. The efficacy and adverse effects profile depend on several factors that include the route of internalization of the actinide, the type, and route time of administration of the chelator, and whether the calcium or zinc salt of DTPA is used. Current and future research efforts should be directed at overcoming limitations associated with the use of these complex drugs by using innovative methods that can enhance their structural and therapeutic properties. © 2012 Bentham Science Publishers.

doi:10.2332/allergolint.11-OA-0332
Title:In vitro evaluation of dry powder inhaler devices of corticosteroid preparations
Authors:G. TamuraH. SakaeS. Fujino
Absract:Background: Although investigations of the drug aerosols generated from inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) preparations and combined drug preparations provide basic information about inhalation therapy, many clinicians have one-sided data about the precision of drug aerosols from the manufacturer. The present study was conducted to analyze and compare the performances of dry powder inhaler (DPI) devices of ICS and combined drug preparations. Methods: The particle size of individual aerosols was measured according to the time-of-flight principle in terms of their aerodynamic diameter by using the aerodynamic particle sizer spectrometer Model 3321. Percent aerosolization was measured using only stage #0 and backup filters of the Andersen non-viable sampler model AN-200. Results: The particle size distribution of aerosols generated from a Turbuhaler™ and Twisthaler™ showed a mono-modal distribution of less than 5 μm. In contrast, Diskus™ showed a polydisperse distribution, ranging from 0.5 to 20 μm. The percentages of DPI preparations converted into aerosols with a particle size less than 11 μm at a suction flow rate of 28.3 L/min were 5.7-6.2% for Diskus, 37.5-47.0% for Turbuhaler, and 19.8% for Twisthaler. At a suction flow rate of 60 L/min, the conversion percentages for DPI preparations into aerosols with a particle size less than 7.6 μm were 5.9-7.5%, 78.2-86.7%, and 43.5%, respectively. Conclusions: Because in vitro differences in the aerosolization among different DPI devices containing ICS and combined drug preparations were observed, prescribers of these preparations should consider whether the patients will benefit more from the treatment of the central airways versus the peripheral airways. ©2012 Japanese Society of Allergology.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:Spray-dried composite formulation for lung sustained release
Authors:B.N. FernandesB. VlocskóR. ChavesM. PaisanaJ. Henriques
Absract:Although drug delivery to the lung presents several advantages, its therapeutic efficiency is limited by a rapid clearance, thus the development of sustained release formulations suitable for lung delivery has been studied intensively in recent years. The main goal of the present work was to assess the impact of encapsulating a model drug (fluticasone propionate, FP) in 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DSPC) vesicles prior to spray-drying (SD) and assess the impact on the final product performance and dissolution. Two formulation procedures were carried out: Formulation 1 (1% FP, 79% trehalose and 20% L-leucine) was manufactured by SD; Formulation 2 (1% FP encapsulated in 29% DSPC, 50% trehalose and 20% L-leucine) was manufactured by (i) liposome formation by ethanol injection; (ii) processing by high pressure homogenization; and (iii) by SD with excipients. The formulations were characterized for particle size distribution, differential scanning calorimetry, X-ray powder diffraction, aerodynamic performance and biorelevant dissolution using paddle over disk apparatus. The formulations presented a PSD within the inhalation range and a fine particle fraction (FPF) of 79 ± 2% and 56 ± 5% for formulation 1 and 2, respectively. The FPF could be to be a consequence of the particle size increase, which can be controlled by optimizing the SD process. Lastly, the dissolution results indicated the DSPC had a sustained release effect on the product, with a 50% of dissolution occurring by 30 min and 90 min for formulation 1 and 2, respectively. Therefore, a standard composite formulation appears to be suitable to manufacture powders containing DSPC as a drug encapsulating agent to achieve a sustained release delivery.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:A novel characterization of emitted aerosol velocity profiles from metered dose and soft mist inhalers (PMDI and SMI)
Authors:L. LiaoK. RamosD. Farina
Absract:In a recent FDA guidance document[1], characterization of the emitted aerosol spray velocity profiles (spray velocity) was proposed as an alternative approach to comparative clinical endpoint bioequivalence (BE) studies. The spray velocity has been reported as an important parameter for drug-device combination products such as pMDIs and SMIs[2]. This paper describes a clear methodology for measuring the spray velocity with the leading edge of the plume and presents results from four (4) US approved inhalation products. In this study, we extended the well-established SprayVIEW® technique for providing timesynchronized plume characterization in a novel way to determine the spray velocity from pMDI and SMI test samples available in the USA. The test products were selected to demonstrate the new measurement methodology and investigate the effects of product type (pMDI/SMI), propellant type (HFA-134a/HFA-227a), formulation type (suspension/solution) and number of excipients on the performance. General conclusions are as follows for the products tested: 1) the emitted aerosol spray velocity from the SMI (average of 1.55m/s) was significantly lower than all of the pMDI products (average of 4.31±9.47 m/s); 2) pMDIs with HFA-227a propellant had higher spray velocities (average of 9.47 m/s) compared to those with HFA-134a propellant (average of 4.31 m/s and 5.41 m/s respectively); 3) Products with higher spray velocity have shorter spray durations, which is another parameter that could affect the pulmonary delivery efficiency; and 4) the formulation type and number of excipients had minimal effects on the spray velocity. Key Message A novel characterization method for determining the emitted aerosol velocity profiles from pMDI and SMI products was introduced with sufficient sensitivity to distinguish between different types of products, propellants and formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2019.03.009
Title:Making Concentrated Antibody Formulations Accessible for Vibrating-Mesh Nebulization
Authors:M. Beck-Broichsitter
Absract:Despite the significant interest in therapeutic antibodies for the treatment of airway diseases, no study addressed the challenge, which can arise when such formulations need to be made accessible for nebulization in concentrated (viscous) form. By (1) determining the maximum viscosity, which can still be atomized by vibrating-mesh technology and (2) supplementing the antibody formulation under investigation with at least 1 excipient, which decreases the viscosity under that specific threshold value of the utilized inhaler (and maintains the stability of the formulation), it should be possible to nebulize concentrated antibody formulations. Using sucrose as a viscosity enhancer, the viscosity threshold value amounted to ∼6 mPa*s for the eFlow@sup_begin®@sup_endrapid device (output rate of <0.1 g/min). When a supplementation of a concentrated model antibody formulation (125 mg/mL) with specific amounts of lysine (≥50 mM) and arginine (≥20 mM) led to the desired drop in viscosity (to <5.5 mPa*s), the previously non-nebulizable formulation (no measurable aerosol output) was made accessible for vibrating-mesh nebulization (output rate of up to ∼0.5 g/min, droplet diameter of <5 μm). The stability of the current antibody formulation was not adversely affected when nebulized in the presence of lysine and arginine. Overall, the presented results will help increase the understanding on how to aerosolize concentrated protein formulations by vibrating-mesh technology.

doi:10.1208/s12249-019-1417-9
Title:Efficacy of Ciprofloxacin and Its Copper Complex against Pseudomonas aeruginosa Biofilms
Authors:F. TewesT.F. Bahamondez-CanasH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:A limitation of antibiotic treatments for P. aeruginosa (PA) chronic pulmonary infections is the reduced efficacy due to sub-therapeutic concentrations at the infection site and the development of biofilm. A novel approach to sustain ciprofloxacin (CIP) in the lungs after inhalation is to reduce its pulmonary absorption rate by its complexation with copper (CIP-Cu). This study aimed to evaluate the antimicrobial action of cationic CIP-Cu complex in PA biofilms in terms of drug concentration and time. Two PA strains, PA01 and PA14, were grown to form biofilm layers in equilibrium with planktonic cells. Static parameters such as pyoverdine production by planktonic cells, enzymatic activity within biofilms, and biofilm biomass 24 h after the addition of CIP or CIP-Cu were evaluated. Also, the kinetic effects of CIP and CIP-Cu on biofilms were evaluated by bioluminescence kinetics using transgenic strains. No differences were observed between CIP and CIP-Cu in terms of efficacy against biofilms, validating the potential of using this complex to treat PA biofilms. Interestingly, CIP concentrations slightly below the MIC value against planktonic bacteria stimulated both virulence and biofilm PA01 production. These results support the need to accurately achieve high CIP concentration in the lungs, which can be more easily achieved by pulmonary delivery of advanced CIP formulations (CIP-metal complexes or liposomal CIP) instead of the oral administration of free CIP.

doi:10.1208/s12249-016-0668-y
Title:Inhalable Ipratropium Bromide Particle Engineering with Multicriteria Optimization
Authors:B.P. VinjamuriR.V. HawareW.C. Stagner
Absract:Spray-dried ipratropium bromide (IPB) microspheres for oral inhalation were engineered using Quality by Design. The interrogation of material properties, process parameters, and critical product quality attributes interplay enabled rational product design. A 2@sup_begin7–3@sup_end screening design exhibited the Maillard reaction between L-leucine (LL) and lactose at studied outlet temperatures (OT) >130°C. A response surface custom design was used in conjunction with multicriteria optimization to determine the operating design space to achieve inhalable microparticles. Statistically significant predictive models were developed for volume median diameter (p = 0.0001, adjusted R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.9938), span (p = 0.0278, adjusted R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.7912), yield (p = 0.0020, adjusted R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.9320), and OT (p = 0.0082, adjusted R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.8768). An independent verification batch confirmed the model’s predictive capability. The prediction and actual values were in good agreement. Particle size and span were 3.32 ± 0.09 μm and 1.71 ± 0.18, which were 4.7 and 5.3% higher than the predicted values. The process yield was 50.3%, compared to the predicted value of 65.3%. The OT was 100°C versus the predicted value of 105°C. The label strength of IPB microparticles was 99.0 to 105.9% w/w suggesting that enrichment occurred during the spray-drying process. The present study can be utilized to initiate the design of the first commercial IPB dry powder inhaler.

doi:10.2174/156720109787846216
Title:Is relief from diabetes just a breath away...?
Authors:C. PasseyS.P. BhardwajD.K. Majumdar
Absract:Pulmonary insulin delivery is steadily emerging as a promising solution for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. The large as well as thin absorptive area of the lungs has not been explored until now for the treatment of systemic disease like diabetes. With an understanding of the lung anatomy and physiology and the transport mechanism of insulin through lungs, diabetic treatment through the pulmonary route may well become the reality of the 21@sup_beginst@sup_end century. Though the transport of insulin through the lungs itself appears quite encouraging, potential problems concerning the formulation of a peptide like insulin in the form of an aerosol seem to be the most challenging. Stability aspects, stringent control of Mass Median Aerodynamic Diameter, antigenicity, insulin losses due to the device and impaction, sedimentation and diffusion in the nonabsorptive areas of the airway system (especially in the oropharynx) emerge as major concerns. This is in addition to the problems of lack of reproducibility of dose delivery by an inhaler where individual variations due to inspiratory differences and method of use of device come into play. Lung diseases and smoking may alter lung mechanisms and dose alterations are to be studied in such cases. Though almost equally effective, if not more, than the subcutaneous insulin route, even with proved short-term efficacy, insulin delivery through lungs is a potential but not a wholly proven means for blood glucose control. © 2009 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.1213/01.ANE.0000073349.04610.42
Title:Dexibuprofen (S(+)-isomer ibuprofen) reduces gastric damage and improves analgesic and antiinflammatory effects in rodents
Authors:A. BonabelloM.R. GalmozziR. CanaparoG.C. IsaiaL. SerpeE. MuntoniG.P. Zara
Absract:We determined the analgesic and antiinflammatory actions and the related acute mucosal gastric damage from the active S(+)-isomer ibuprofen (dexibuprofen), in comparison with those of the standard racemic formulation of ibuprofen in rodents. The antinociception was evaluated by hot-plate and tail-flick methods after IV and oral (PO) administration in mice and after PO administration in rats. S(+)-Ibuprofen was at least twice more potent than the ibuprofen racemic formulation. The antiinflammatory action of the test compound, assessed with the abdominal constriction test in mice (IV and PO) and with hind paw edema in rats (IV and PO), was found to be significantly more potent than that of ibuprofen after IV treatment in mice and PO administration in rats. Moreover, the test compound caused significantly less mucosal gastric damage than the racemic formulation administered at identical doses (50 mg/kg PO in rats). In conclusion, the S(+)-ibuprofen isomer was found to be more potent than the racemic formulation in analgesic and antiinflammatory tests and presented fewer gastric toxic effects. On the basis of the results of this work, we suggest that the administration of chemical entities, such as R(-)-ibuprofen, should be avoided if they are not essential for the anticipated therapeutic activity.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2000.0850
Title:Pharmaceutical transition to non-CFC pressurized metered dose inhalers
Authors:A. CrippsM. RiebeM. SchulzeR. Woodhouse
Absract:The production of ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) was discontinued on 1 January 1996 for all uses deemed non-essential under the Montreal Protocol. However, the use of CFCs as propellants in pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) was classed as essential, providing an exemption from the agreement. Following extensive research, the hydrofluoroalkanes (HFA) 134a and 227 were identified as the only suitable replacements for CFC propellants in pMDIs. The drug delivery of pMDIs formulated with HFA 134a as a propellant and containing either salbutamol (100 μg per actuation) or fluticasone propionate (125 and 250 μg per actuation) have been assessed for dose uniformity and particle size distribution. All of the HFA 134a pMDIs delivered doses throughout the life of the canisters that were reproducible and within specified regulatory requirements. Each of the products provided an emitted dose which was within ±25% of the mean value indicating accurate and consistent dosing (93, 112 and 221 μg per metered dose for the salbutamol 100 μg and fluticasone propionate 125 and 250 μg HFA 134a pMDIs, respectively). These findings were unaffected by changing the storage orientation of the pMDI or by using the device in a manner designed to simulate typical patient use. The particle size distributions of HFA 134a pMDI doses did not differ significantly from those of the corresponding CFC pMDIs. As a result of the similar pharmaceutical performance, it is unnecessary to change the label claim dose of active drug when making the transition from a CFC to an HFA 134a pMDI for salbutamol (Ventolin(TM)) and fluticasone propionate (Flixotide(TM)). A seamless transition to non-CFC pMDIs will help to maintain the confidence of patients and healthcare professionals in asthma therapy.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2014.11.007
Title:Liquid crystalline phase as a probe for crystal engineering of lactose: Carrier for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:S.S. PatilK.R. MahadikA.R. Paradkar
Absract:The current work was undertaken to assess suitability of liquid crystalline phase for engineering of lactose crystals and their utility as a carrier in dry powder inhalation formulations. Saturated lactose solution was poured in molten glyceryl monooleate which subsequently transformed into gel. The gel microstructure was analyzed by PPL microscopy and SAXS. Lactose particles recovered from gels after 48 h were analyzed for polymorphism using techniques such as FTIR, XRD, DSC and TGA. Particle size, morphology and aerosolisation properties of prepared lactose were analyzed using Anderson cascade impactor. In situ seeding followed by growth of lactose crystals took place in gels with cubic microstructure as revealed by PPL microscopy and SAXS. Elongated (size ∼ 71 μm) lactose particles with smooth surface containing mixture of α and β-lactose was recovered from gel, however percentage of α-lactose was more as compared to β-lactose. The aerosolisation parameters such as RD, ED, %FPF and % recovery of lactose recovered from gel (LPL) were found to be comparable to Respitose® ML001. Thus LC phase (cubic) can be used for engineering of lactose crystals so as to obtain particles with smooth surface, high elongation ratio and further they can be used as carrier in DPI formulations.

doi:10.1517/13543784.2014.895322
Title:Nebulized liposomal amikacin for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in cystic fibrosis patients
Authors:Z. EhsanJ.D. WetzelJ.P. Clancy
Absract:Introduction: Chronic lung infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PsA) is associated with more-rapid pulmonary decline and acute pulmonary exacerbations in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The treatment and eradication of this organism from CF airways is particularly difficult, making it the focus of many therapeutic endeavors. Inhaled antibiotics used for PsA treatment help to suppress growth of the organism, maintain lung function and reduce the frequency of pulmonary exacerbations. Areas covered: Herein, the authors discuss the currently available inhaled antibiotics for management of lung infections in CF patients. They also describe the recent results from clinical trials of agents under development, with a focus on liposomal amikacin for inhalation (LAI, Arikace™). The article also provides a summary of the results from relevant articles published in the English. Expert opinion: LAI is a unique formulation of amikacin that enhances drug delivery and retention in CF airways via incorporation into neutral liposomes. Results of a recent Phase II trial suggest that LAI, with the capacity for once-daily dosing and prolonged off-drug periods, may be an attractive choice of inhaled antibiotic to manage PsA lung infections in CF patients. Further data from Phase III studies assessing the efficacy and safety of LAI should better elucidate its potential. © 2014 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.3797/scipharm.1307-03
Title:Preparation, In vitro characterization, And in vivo pharmacokinetic evaluation of respirable porous microparticles containing rifampicin
Authors:A. KundawalaV. PatelH. PatelD. Choudhary
Absract:This study aimed to prepare and evaluate rifampicin microparticles for the lung delivery of rifampicin as respirable powder. The microparticles were prepared using chitosan by the spray-drying method and evaluated for aerodynamic properties and pulmonary drug absorption. To control the drug release, tripoly-phosphate in different concentrations 0.6, 0.9, 1.2, and 1.5 was employed to get a sustained drug release profile. The microparticles were evaluated for drug loading, % entrapment efficiency, tapped density, morphological characteristics, and in vitro drug release studies. Aerosol properties were determined using the Andersen cascade impactor. Porous microparticles with particle sizes (d@sub_begin0.5@sub_end) less than 10 μm were obtained. The entrapment of rifampicin in microparticles was up to 72%. In vitro drug release suggested that the crosslinked microparticles showed sustained release for more than 12 hrs. The drug release rate was found to be decreased as the TPP concentration was increased. The microparticles showed a fine particle fraction in the range of 55-63% with mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) values below 3 μm. The in vivo pulmonary absorption of the chitosan microparticles suggested a sustained drug release profile up to 72 hrs with an elimination rate of 0.010 per hr. The studies revealed that the spray-dried porous microparticles have suitable properties to be used as respirable powder in rifampicin delivery to the lungs.

doi:10.1208/s12249-013-9984-7
Title:Evaluation of an abbreviated impactor for fine particle fraction (FPF) determination of metered dose inhalers (MDI)
Authors:C. GuoD. NgoS. AhadiW.H. Doub
Absract:Abbreviated impactors have been developed recently to allow more rapid evaluation of inhalation products as alternates to the eight-stage Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI) which has been widely used in the pharmaceutical industry for assessing aerodynamic particle size distribution. In this paper, a two-stage abbreviated impactor, Westech Fine Particle Dose Impactor (WFPD), was used to characterize the aerodynamic particle size of metered dose inhaler (MDI) products, and the results were compared with those obtained using the standard eight-stage ACI. Seven commercial MDI products, with different propellants (chlorofluorocarbon/hydrofluoroalkane) and formulation types (suspension/solution, dry/normal/wet), were tested in this study by both WFPD and ACI. Substantially equivalent measures of fine particle fraction were obtained for most of the tested MDI products, but larger coarse particle fraction and extra-fine particle fraction values were measured from WFPD relative to those measured using the ACI. Use of the WFPD also produced more wall loss than the ACI. Therefore, it is recommended that the system suitability be evaluated on a product-by-product basis to establish substantial equivalency before implementing an abbreviated impactor measurement methodology for routine use in inhaler product characterization. © 2013 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

pui:369916778
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery system: Review
Authors:N.P. ChaturvediH. Solanki
Absract:Growing attention has been given to the potential of pulmonary route as an alternative for non-invasive systemic delivery of therapeutic agents.Pulmonary drug delivery can be used as an alternative to oral delivery. These systems can be best utilized for both local and systemic actions.Pulmonary drug delivery is an importantresearch area which impacts the treatment of illnesses including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and various other diseases. Inhalation gives the most direct access to drug target. This route can be used to deposit the drug to the target site at high concentration, reducing the amount of drug given to the patient and also help in reducing the systemic side effect and first pass metabolism. In the treatment of obstructive respiratory diseases, pulmonary delivery can minimize systemic side effects, provide rapid response and minimize the required dose since the drug is delivered directly to the conducting zone of the lungs. Generally half of all pharmaceuticals are not soluble in water, but are soluble in lipid. As the lung is able to absorb both water and oil into the tissue, this is not a restriction of pulmonary delivery. Carriers like micro particles, nanoparticles, liposomes can be used in lung targeting.This article focuses on the technologies, mechanism of drug deposition, devices, carriers and recent advances used in pulmonary drug delivery system.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2011.12.004
Title:Controlled pulmonary drug and gene delivery using polymeric nano-carriers
Authors:M. Beck-BroichsitterO.M. MerkelT. Kissel
Absract:Pulmonary drug and gene delivery to the lung represents a non-invasive avenue for local and systemic therapies. However, the respiratory tract provides substantial barriers that need to be overcome for successful pulmonary application. In this regard, micro- and nano-sized particles offer novel concepts for the development of optimized therapeutic tools in pulmonary research. Polymeric nano-carriers are generally preferred as controlled pulmonary delivery systems due to prolonged retention in the lung. Specific manipulation of nano-carrier characteristics enables the design of "intelligent" carriers specific for modulation of the duration and intensity of pharmacological effects. New formulations should be tested for pulmonary absorption and distribution using more advanced ex vivo and in vivo models. The delivery of nano-carriers to the air-space enables a detailed characterization of the interaction between the carrier vehicle and the natural pulmonary environment. In summary, polymeric nanoparticles seem to be especially promising as controlled delivery systems and represent a solid basis for future advancement for pulmonary delivery applications. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:365756356
Title:Treating tuberculosis with chitosan microparticles loaded with rifampicin as respirable powder for pulmonary delivery
Authors:A.J. KundawalaH.V. PatelD. ChoudharyV.A. Patel
Absract:Microparticles containing antitubercular agent, Rifampicin, was prepared and evaluated for its suitability as respirable dry powder formulation for lung delivery. Chitosan solution containing rifampicin, lactose and leucine in different ratio was spray dried. Ascorbic acid was used in concentration of 200μg/ml as antioxidant. The other physical properties of prepared microparticles like Particle size, morphology, densities and aerodynamic diameter were determined. Solid state of microparticles was characterized by Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and Xray diffraction studies. The fine particle fraction and emitted dose required for a good aerosol performance was determined by Andersen Cascade Impactor. Microparticle with maximum drug loading of 98.31and particle size in range 5-7μm was obtained with % yield of ≤ 43 %. Satisfactory aerosol properties like FPF (47.29 %), emitted dose up to 92 % and theoretical aerodynamic diameter less than 3.62 μm were obtained. The in vitro drug release from chitosan microparticles was found to be slow and up to 68 to 84 % in 6 hrs. When drug release data were plotted in Ritger and Peppas model, all formulations except controlled formulation showed fickian diffusion kinetic. The present study revealed that the rifampicin loaded chitosan microparticles produced by spray drying showed good physicochemical properties deemed suitable for inhalation therapy. © KESS.

doi:10.1016/S0889-8537(05)70301-1
Title:What are the best agents for ambulatory general anesthesia, and are they cost effective?
Authors:B.K. Philip
Absract:To determine cost-effective anesthesia care, we must first define our goals, e.g., effectiveness. We need to assess an agent's impact on all phases of anesthetic care, including positive and negative side effects as well as recovery times. In light of these considerations, we can evaluate the cost of an agent, i.e., the acquisition price, how that cost compares with the cost of other agents in its class, and how use of the agent will affect other nonanesthetic perioperative costs. The least expensive agent is not a priori the best, and neither is the most expensive one. Cost effectiveness is the value obtained for the money spent; that is what we must determine.

doi:10.1080/10915810305085
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of Aluminum Silicate, Calcium Silicate, Magnesium Aluminum Silicate, Magnesium Silicate, Magnesium Trisilicate, Sodium Magnesium Silicate, Zirconium Silicate, Attapulgite, Bentonite, Fuller's Earth, Hectorite, Kaolin, Lithium Magnesium Silicate, Lithium Magnesium Sodium Silicate, Montmorillonite, Pyrophyllite, and Zeolite
Authors:F.A. Andersen
Absract:This report reviews the safety of Aluminum, Calcium, Lithium Magnesium, Lithium Magnesium Sodium, Magnesium Aluminum, Magnesium, Sodium Magnesium, and Zirconium Silicates, Magnesium Trisilicate, Attapulgite, Bentonite, Fuller's Earth, Hectorite, Kaolin, Montmorillonite, Pyrophyllite, and Zeolite as used in cosmetic formulations. The common aspect of all these claylike ingredients is that they contain silicon, oxygen, and one or more metals. Many silicates occur naturally and are mined; yet others are produced synthetically. Typical cosmetic uses of silicates include abrasive, opacifying agent, viscosity-increasing agent, anticaking agent, emulsion stabilizer, binder, and suspending agent. Clay silicates (silicates containing water in their structure) primarily function as adsorbents, opacifiers, and viscosity-increasing agents. Pyrophyllite is also used as a colorant. The International Agency for Research on Cancer has ruled Attapulgite fibers >5 μm as possibly carcinogenic to humans, but fibers <5 μm were not classified as to their carcinogenicity to humans. Likewise, Clinoptilolite, Phillipsite, Mordenite, Nonfibrous Japanese Zeolite, and synthetic Zeolites were not classified as to their carcinogenicity to humans. These ingredients are not significantly toxic in oral acute or short-term oral or parenteral toxicity studies in animals. Inhalation toxicity, however, is readily demonstrated in animals. Particle size, fibrogenicity, concentration, and mineral composition had the greatest effect on toxicity. Larger particle size and longer and wider fibers cause more adverse effects. Magnesium Aluminum Silicate was a weak primary skin irritant in rabbits and had no cumulative skin irritation in guinea pigs. No gross effects were reported in any of these studies. Sodium Magnesium Silicate had no primary skin irritation in rabbits and had no cumulative skin irritation in guinea pigs. Hectorite was nonirritating to the skin of rabbits in a Draize primary skin irritation study. Magnesium Aluminum Silicate and Sodium Magnesium Silicate caused minimal eye irritation in a Draize eye irritation test. Bentonite caused severe iritis after injection into the anterior chamber of the eyes of rabbits and when injected intralamellarly, widespread corneal infiltrates and retrocorneal membranes were recorded. In a primary eye irritation study in rabbits, Hectorite was moderately irritating without washing and practically nonirritating to the eye with a washout. Rats tolerated a single dose of Zeolite A without any adverse reaction in the eye. Calcium Silicate had no discernible effect on nidation or on maternal or fetal survival in rabbits. Magnesium Aluminum Silicate had neither a teratogenic nor adverse effects on the mouse fetus. Female rats receiving a 20% Kaolin diet exhibited maternal anemia but no significant reduction in birth weight of the pups was recorded. Type A Zeolite produced no adverse effects on the dam, embryo, or fetus in either rats or rabbits at any dose level. Clinoptilolite had no effect on female rat reproductive performance. These ingredients were not genotoxic in the Ames bacterial test system. In primary hepatocyte cultures, the addition of Attapulgite had no significant unscheduled DNA synthesis. Attapulgite did cause significant increases in unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat pleural mesothelial cells, but no significant increase in sister chromosome exchanges were seen. Zeolite particles (<10 μm) produced statistically significant increase in the percentage of aberrant metaphases in human peripheral blood lymphocytes and cells collected by peritoneal lavage from exposed mice. Topical application of Magnesium Aluminum Silicate to human skin daily for 1 week produced no adverse effects. Occupational exposure to mineral dusts has been studied extensively. Fibrosis and pneumoconiosis have been documented in workers involved in the mining and processing of Aluminum Silicate, Calcium Silicate, Zirconium Silicate, Fuller's Earth, Kaolin, Montmorillonite, Pyrophyllite, and Zeolite. The Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel concluded that the extensive pulmonary damage in humans was the result of direct occupational inhalation of the dusts and noted that lesions seen in animals were affected by particle size, fiber length, and concentration. The Panel considers that most of the formulations are not respirable and of the preparations that are respirable, the concentration of the ingredient is very low. Even so, the Panel considered that any spray containing these solids should be formulated to minimize their inhalation. With this admonition to the cosmetics industry, the CIR Expert Panel concluded that these ingredients are safe as currently used in cosmetic formulations. The Panel did note that the cosmetic ingredient, Talc, is a hydrated magnesium silicate. Because it has a unique crystalline structure that differs from ingredients addressed in this safety assessment, Talc is not included in this report.

doi:10.1164/rccm.201807-1318OC
Title:Amikacin liposome inhalation suspension for treatment-refractory lung disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex (CONVERT) a prospective, open-label, randomized study
Authors:D.E. GriffithG. EagleR. ThomsonT.R. AksamitN. HasegawaK. MorimotoD.J. Addrizzo-HarrisA.E. O'DonnellT.K. MarrasP.A. FlumeM.R. LoebingerL. MorganL.R. CodecasaA.T. HillS.J. RuossJ.-J. YimF.C. RingshausenS.K. FieldJ.V. PhilleyR.J. WallaceJ. Van IngenC. CoulterJ. NezamisK.L. Winthrop
Absract:Rationale: Improved therapeutic options are needed for patients with treatment-refractory nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC). Objectives: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of daily amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) added to standard guideline-based therapy (GBT) in patients with refractory MAC lung disease. Methods: Adults with amikacin-susceptible MAC lung disease and MAC-positive sputum cultures despite at least 6 months of stable GBT were randomly assigned (2:1) to receive ALIS with GBT (ALIS + GBT) or GBT alone. Once-daily ALIS was supplied in single-use vials delivering 590 mg amikacin to the nebulizer. The primary endpoint was culture conversion, defined as three consecutive monthly MAC-negative sputum cultures by Month 6. Measurements and Main Results: Enrolled patients (ALIS + GBT, n = 224; GBT-alone, n = 112) were a mean 64.7 years old and 69.3% female. Most had underlying bronchiectasis (62.5%), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (14.3%), or both (11.9%). Culture conversion was achieved by 65 of 224 patients (29.0%) with ALIS + GBT and 10 of 112 (8.9%) with GBT alone (odds ratio, 4.22; 95% confidence interval, 2.08-8.57; P < 0.001). Patients in the ALIS + GBT arm versus GBT alone were more likely to achieve conversion (hazard ratio, 3.90; 95% confidence interval, 2.00-7.60). Respiratory adverse events (primarily dysphonia, cough, and dyspnea) were reported in 87.4% of patients receiving ALIS + GBT and 50.0% receiving GBT alone; serious treatment-emergent adverse events occurred in 20.2% and 17.9% of patients, respectively. Conclusions: Addition of ALIS to GBT for treatment-refractory MAC lung disease achieved significantly greater culture conversion by Month 6 than GBT alone, with comparable rates of serious adverse events.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.01.034
Title:Formulation and comparison of spray dried non-porous and large porous particles containing meloxicam for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:A. ChvatalR. AmbrusP. PartyG. KatonaO. Jójárt-LaczkovichP. Szabó-RévészE. FattalN. Tsapis
Absract:Meloxicam is an anti-inflammatory drug that could be interesting to deliver locally to the lungs to treat inflammation occurring in cystic fibrosis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Spray drying conditions were optimized to prepare inhalable dry powders, from meloxicam aqueous solution with pH adjustment. A comparison study between non-porous and large porous particles (LPPs) was carried out to demonstrate the relevance of the aimed large size (>5 µm) and low density (<0.2 mg/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end) formulations. With the appropriate amount of porogen agent, ammonium bicarbonate, LPPs exhibited the same aerodynamic diameter and a higher deposited fraction than smaller but dense particles. The aerodynamic evaluation of LPPs showed that the fine particle fraction (FPF) reached up to 65.8%, while the emitted fraction (EF) reached 85.4%, both higher than for the non-porous particles. Stability tests demonstrated that, after 10 weeks of storage, no significant difference could be detected in the aerodynamic behaviour of the formulations. To the best of our knowledge this is the first time large porous particles, with enhanced aerodynamic properties, from an aqueous solution of meloxicam are reported.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2014.02.033
Title:Influence of excipients on spray-dried powders for inhalation
Authors:E.-Y. XuJ. GuoY. XuH.-Y. LiP.C. Seville
Absract:Two areas attracting considerable attention when developing effective pulmonary drug delivery systems include the improvement of aerosolisation efficiency of the inhaled formulation and the controlled release of drug from the formulation following deposition within the lung. In this study, four saccharides were employed as excipients in the preparation of spray-dried powder formulations for the pulmonary drug delivery. Beta-cyclodextrin-, starch-, and sodium carboxymethylcellulose (NaCMC)-based spray-dried powders showed a significant (one-way ANOVA, Duncan's test, p<. 0.05) increase in lower stage drug deposition in the Next Generation Impactor (NGI) when compared to lactose-based spray-dried powders. Furthermore, NaCMC-based spray-dried powder formulations exhibited a sustained drug release profile in dissolution testing; approximately 80% of salbutamol sulphate was released after an hour, whereas drug from the lactose-based spray-dried powder formulation was released within 5. min. Our results clearly demonstrate that the inclusion of NaCMC in spray-dried powder formulations increases the aerosolisation efficiency of the powder and also offers the potential for sustained drug release, which may be of benefit in the treatment of local and systemic conditions. © 2014 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1007/s11095-013-1096-2
Title:Engineering of an inhalable dda/tdb liposomal adjuvant: A quality-by-design approach towards optimization of the spray drying process
Authors:P.T. IngvarssonM. YangH. MulvadH.M. NielsenJ. RantanenC. Foged
Absract:Purpose: The purpose of this study was to identify and optimize spray drying parameters of importance for the design of an inhalable powder formulation of a cationic liposomal adjuvant composed of dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDA) bromide and trehalose-6,6′-dibehenate (TDB). Methods: A quality by design (QbD) approach was applied to identify and link critical process parameters (CPPs) of the spray drying process to critical quality attributes (CQAs) using risk assessment and design of experiments (DoE), followed by identification of an optimal operating space (OOS). A central composite face-centered design was carried out followed by multiple linear regression analysis. Results: Four CQAs were identified; the mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), the liposome stability (size) during processing, the moisture content and the yield. Five CPPs (drying airflow, feed flow rate, feedstock concentration, atomizing airflow and outlet temperature) were identified and tested in a systematic way. The MMAD and the yield were successfully modeled. For the liposome size stability, the ratio between the size after and before spray drying was modeled successfully. The model for the residual moisture content was poor, although, the moisture content was below 3% in the entire design space. Finally, the OOS was drafted from the constructed models for the spray drying of trehalose stabilized DDA/TDB liposomes. Conclusions: The QbD approach for the spray drying process should include a careful consideration of the quality target product profile. This approach implementing risk assessment and DoE was successfully applied to optimize the spray drying of an inhalable DDA/TDB liposomal adjuvant designed for pulmonary vaccination. [Figure not available: see fulltext.] © 2013 Springer Science+Business Media New York.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2009.09.040
Title:Characterization and pharmacokinetic analysis of tacrolimus dispersion for nebulization in a lung transplanted rodent model
Authors:A.B. WattsA.M. ClineA.R. SaadS.B. JohnsonJ.I. PetersR.O. Williams III
Absract:Lung transplantation animal models have been well established and enabled the investigation of a variety of new pharmacotherapeutic strategies for prevention of lung allograft rejection. Direct administration of immunosuppressive agents to the lung is a commonly investigated approach; however, can prove challenging due to the poor solubility of the drug molecule, the tortuous pathways of the lung periphery, and the limited number of excipients approved for inhalation. In this study, we aimed to evaluate a solubility enhancing formulation of tacrolimus for localized therapy in a lung transplanted rat model and determine the extent of drug absorption into systemic circulation. Characterization of the nebulized tacrolimus dispersion for nebulization showed a fine particle fraction (FPF) of 46.1% and a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 4.06 μm. After single dose administration to transplanted and non-transplanted rats, a mean peak transplanted lung concentration of 399.8 ± 29.2 ng/g and mean peak blood concentration of 4.88 ± 1.6 ng/mL were achieved. It is theorized that enhanced lung retention of tacrolimus is due to lipophilic associations with bronchial tissue and phospholipid surfactants in lung fluid. These findings indicate that tacrolimus dispersion for nebulization can achieve highly localized therapy for lung transplant recipients. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/17425240903117244
Title:Assessment methods of inhaled aerosols: Technical aspects and applications
Authors:C. Jaafar-MaalejV. AndrieuA. ElaissariH. Fessi
Absract:The pulmonary route has been used with success for the treatment of both lung (asthma) and systemic diseases (diabetes). The fate of an inhaled drug (absorption and deposition) within human lungs has great importance, particularly in drug development and quality control. This article focuses on the various methods that are now applied for aerosol fate investigation. Several assessment methods, ranging from in vitro assays (impaction and optical systems) to in vivo experiments (imaging and pharmacological methods), are described. In vitro assays measure particle size distribution and emitted drug dose, which could be predictive of lung deposition pattern in vivo. However, in vivo methods provide direct information about the concentration and the location of inhaled drug within lung. Advantages and limitations of the different techniques are identified. In addition to these experimental techniques, mathematical deposition models, elaborated in more realistic conditions and designed to predict the fate of inhaled particles, are also illustrated. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd All rights reserved.

doi:10.1124/mol.108.050153
Title:Enhanced anti-inflammation of inhaled dexamethasone palmitate using mannosylated liposomes in an endotoxin-induced lung inflammation model
Authors:W. WijagkanalanY. HiguchiS. KawakamiM. TeshimaH. SasakiM. Hashida
Absract:Inhalation of bacterial endotoxin induces pulmonary inflammation by activation of nuclear factor κB (NFκB), production of cytokines and chemokines, and neutrophil activation. Although glucocorticoids are the drugs of choice, administration of free drugs results in adverse effects as a result of a lack of selectivity for the inflammatory effector cells. Because alveolar macrophages play a key role in the inflammatory response in the lung, selective targeting of glucocorticoids to alveolar macrophages offers efficacious pharmacological intervention with minimal side effects. We have demonstrated previously the selective targeting of mannosylated liposomes to alveolar macrophages via mannose receptor-mediated endocytosis after intratracheal administration. In this study, the anti-inflammatory effects of dexamethasone palmitate incorporated in mannosylated liposomes (DPML) at 0.5 mg/kg via intratracheal administration were investigated in lipopolysaccharide-induced lung inflammation in rats. DPML significantly inhibited tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin-1β, and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 levels, suppressed neutrophil infiltration and myeloperoxidase activity, and inhibited NFκB and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in the lung. These results prove the value of inhaled mannosylated liposomes as powerful targeting systems for the delivery of anti-inflammatory drugs to alveolar macrophages to improve their efficacy against lung inflammation. Copyright © 2008 The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.

doi:10.1177/14746514040040050201
Title:Current status of the development of inhaled insulin
Authors:L. Heinemann
Absract:The most promising alternative route of insulin administration seems to be pulmonary delivery by inhalation. For a maximal rate of absorption insulin must be applied deep into the lung, i.e., into the alveoli. A number of inhalers designed to generate an aerosol with an appropriate particle size for pulmonary delivery are currently in clinical development. The pharmacodynamic effects of insulin formulations administered via the lung are comparable to, or are even faster than, those of subcutaneously injected regular insulin or rapid-acting insulin analogues. The relative biopotency of inhaled insulin is approximately 10%, i.e., the dose of inhaled insulin must be 10 times higher than the dose applied subcutaneously in order to induce a comparable metabolic effect. Clinical trials indicate that metabolic control with this pain free route of insulin administration is at least comparable to that of subcutaneous (sc) insulin therapy. Side effects observed in human trials, gave rise to safety concerns that have delayed development for several years. Nevertheless, recent long-term safety studies indicate that the increased stimulation of insulin antibody formation stopped after some time and that the observed changes in lung function were minor or reversible. Consequently the first application for an approval of pulmonary insulin has been submitted to the authorities. In summary, it seems as if, after several decades of research, for the first time a feasible alternative route for insulin administration is within reach.

doi:10.1002/(SICI)1099-081X(199807)19:5<297::AID-BDD105>3.0.CO;2-I
Title:Beclomethasone relative availability of oral versus inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate from an HFA-134A metered dose inhaler
Authors:I. SoriaL.I. HarrisonJ.H. MachacekA.C. ClineP.A. Stampone
Absract:3M has formulated a new chlorofluorocarbon-free (CFC-free) beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) metered-dose inhaler (MDI) with the use of the propellant HFA-134a (HFA). Lung deposition studies demonstrated that the HFA BDP MDI delivers to the lungs approximately 56% of the BDP dose (ex- adaptor), a substantially higher percentage than the 5-30% delivered by conventional CFC BDP MDIs. As new sensitive bioanalytical methods are becoming available to quantitate systemic levels of inhaled corticosteroids, pharmacokinetic evaluations are emerging as sensitive and reproducible methods that can be used as a complement to the data obtained from lung deposition studies to assess and compare the performance of MDIs. The present study was designed to determine the beclomethasone (BOH) availability of oral BDP relative to inhaled HFA BDP as a first step to alloy MDI product comparisons in the future. Forty mild asthmatic patients completed this open- label, randomized, single-dose, two-period crossover study. Each patient received an oral dose of BDP (0.2, 0.5, 1, 2 or 5 mg) in one period and an inhaled dose of BDP (0.2 or 0.8 mg) in the other period, with four patients allocated to each of ten different treatment sequences. The BOH availability of orally administered BDP was approximately 40% relative to inhaled HFA BDP. In addition, the fraction of an oral dose that reaches the systemic circulation was estimated from the 40% relative availability and previous lung deposition data to be 0.26. These estimated pharmacokinetic parameters will be used in the future to further characterize the pharmacokinetics of inhaled BDP and to compare the performance of different MDI products.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:Enabling pulmonary delivery of sirna in cystic fibrosis lung inflammation through hybrid lipid/polymer nanoparticles
Authors:I. D'AngeloG. ConteG. CostabileD. BaldassiF. QuagliaR. SorrentinoO.M. MerkelF. Ungaro
Absract:The down-regulation of genes directly involved in the pathogenesis of severe lung diseases through pulmonary delivery of short RNA fragments, also known as siRNA, has gained recently remarkable research interest, especially in cystic fibrosis (CF). In this context, the general aim of this work is the development of inhalable hybrid nanoparticles (hNPs) for siRNA delivery made up of a combination of lipids and polymers. To this purpose, the therapeutic potential of hNPs delivering a siRNA pool against one of the most critical signals in evoking the inflammatory response in CF, the nuclear factor-κB (NFκB), is under investigation. hNPs loaded with siRNA against NF-κB were prepared from poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) and endogenous phospholipids. The most adequate formulation conditions to produce non-PEGylated and PEGylated siRNA-loaded hNPs with optimal aerosolization and mucus-penetrating properties have been identified. In vitro data suggest that siRNA-loaded hNPs are not cytotoxic and may penetrate lung extracellular barriers, allowing siRNA uptake inside human bronchial epithelial cells. Furthermore, a rat model of lung inflammation has been set up and validated to start with in vivo efficacy studies. In perspective, the development of a siRNA delivery system already engineered for in vivo inhalation and transfection might shorten the time to translation to patients, providing a therapeutic platform to address multiple targets that are still considered “undruggable” in CF.

doi:10.1002/(ISSN)1532-6535
Title:Physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modeling of inhaled aerosol predicts marked gastrointestinal absorption of nicotine in rats
Authors:A. KolliF. MartinY. XangB. TitzE. WongW.K. SchlageE. VeljkovicP. VanscheeuwijckJ. Hoeng
Absract:Background: Pharmacokinetics (PK) of inhaled aerosol depends on the deposition fraction, the extent and rate of absorption in aerodigestive tract and pulmonary absorption, systemic distribution, and clearance. Our objective was to describe the absorption and disposition characteristics of inhaled nicotine containing aerosol in rats. Methods: As per OECD guidelines for subacute inhalation toxicity testing, 12 male Sprague-Dawley rats per group were exposed (nose-only) to formulations containing 23 and 50 μg/L concentrations of nicotine for 6 h/day for 5 days/week for 2 weeks. The plasma concentrations of nicotine and cotinine were monitored 16 hours post-exposure on days 4 and 11. We built a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model for inhaled formulations in R using mrgsolve package@sup_begin1@sup_end and parameters from Plowchalk et al.@sup_begin2@sup_end. The fraction of aerosol (F) entering lung and GI, absorption rate from GI (kGI), nicotine metabolism (Vmax) and cotinine elimination (kEL) were fitted using global optimization package GenSA@sup_begin3@sup_end to plasma concentrations. Results: Plasma time courses of nicotine and cotinine showed no difference after 2 weeks of dosing and fell within the model predicted 5%-95% percentiles. Nicotine Cmax was 602.9 and 1361.1 ng/mL for 23 and 50 μg/L exposures respectively. Only 60.4% of aerosol was absorbed through lungs and 39.6% was absorbed through GI at a kGI of 0.175 hr@sup_begin-1@sup_end. Nicotine half-life was 1.2 hr@sup_begin-1@sup_end even after marked GI absorption. Conclusion: The model predicts systemic exposures for inhaled aerosols by estimating fractions deposited in lung and GI. It can guide formulation of aerosols and inform population-based PBPK model to predict exposures of inhaled aerosols.

doi:10.1183/16000617.0067-2015
Title:Recent advances in targeting the prostacyclin pathway in pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:I.M. LangS.P. Gaine
Absract:Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a severe disease characterised by increased pulmonary vascular resistance, which leads to restricted pulmonary arterial blood flow and elevated pulmonary arterial pressure. In patients with PAH, pulmonary concentrations of prostacyclin, a prostanoid that targets several receptors including the IP prostacyclin receptor, are reduced. To redress this balance, epoprostenol, a synthetic prostacyclin, or analogues of prostacyclin have been given therapeutically. These therapies improve exercise capacity, functional class and haemodynamic parameters. In addition, epoprostenol improves survival among patients with PAH. Despite their therapeutic benefits, treatments that target the prostacyclin pathway are underused. One key factor is their requirement for parenteral administration: continuous intravenous administration can lead to embolism and thrombosis; subcutaneous administration is associated with infusion-site pain; and inhalation is time consuming, requiring multiple daily administrations. Nevertheless, targeting the prostacyclin pathway is an important strategy for the management of PAH. The development of oral therapies for this pathway, as well as more user-friendly delivery devices, may alleviate some of the inconveniences. Continued improvements in therapeutic options will enable more patients with PAH to receive medication targeting the prostacyclin pathway.

doi:10.1002/jps.23685
Title:Colistin powders with high aerosolisation efficiency for respiratory infection: Preparation and in vitro evaluation
Authors:Q.(T. ZhouD.A.V. MortonH.H. YuJ. JacobJ. WangJ. LiH.K. Chan
Absract:In many respiratory infections caused by multi-drug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria, colistin is often the last-line drug for treatment despite its nephrotoxicity when administered parenterally. Inhalation therapy of colistin has great potential to improve the efficacy while reducing adverse effects. In this study, inhalable powder formulations of colistin (sulphate) were produced via spray drying. The colistin powders were found to have intact antimicrobial activity against Acinetobacter baumannii measured by broth micro-dilution. Both the raw material and spray-dried formulations were amorphous and absorbed significant amount of water up to 30% (w/w) at relative humidity (RH) of at least 70%. The spray-dried formulations were physically stable in the amorphous form at 60% RH and 25°C, having a high aerosol efficiency (emitted dose >86% and fine particle fraction total >83%) which remained unchanged after a 3-month storage. Storage at an elevated RH of 75% resulted in the aerosolisation performance significantly decreased, and at RH 90%, the formulation particles fused together (but without re-crystallisation). Although spray drying has been extensively used for generating inhalable drug particles, this is the first report that colistin powder can be physically stable in the amorphous form at ambient conditions, indicating that spray-drying approach is suitable for producing inhalable colistin powder formulation. © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.3109/07853890.2011.585656
Title:Assessing and treating small airways disease in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:O.S. UsmaniP.J. Barnes
Absract:Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are chronic inflammatory disorders of the respiratory tract that are characterized by airflow limitation. They are distinct conditions with different causes, structural changes, and immunopathology. The pathophysiology in asthma and COPD involves not only the proximal large airways, but also the distal small airways, and thus the small airways are an important therapeutic target in the treatment of both diseases. The assessment of diseased distal small airways is challenging. Extensive disease can be present in the small airways with little abnormality in conventional pulmonary function tests. Recent advances in imaging technologies have led to better spatial resolution to assess small airways morphology non-invasively. New physiological tests have been developed to detect disease and response to therapy in regional airways. Improving the efficiency of existing aerosolized therapy to direct drug to the appropriate lung regions may improve clinical efficacy. Approaches to target distal lung regions include developing new drug formulations with smaller aerosol particle size or using inhaler devices that emit aerosolized drug at slow inhalation flows. Large studies are needed to determine whether better distal lung deposition leads to improvements in small airways function that are translated into clinically significant patient outcomes. © 2012 Informa UK, Ltd.

pui:32691768
Title:Syringe, pen, inhaler - The evolution of insulin therapy
Authors:I.A. HarschE.G. HahnP.C. Konturek
Absract:The therapy with inhalable insulin can be expected to change the present concepts and the market of subcutaneous insulin dramatically within the next years. Several companies are currently developing formulations of inhalable insulin. In the most advanced concept, insulin is delivered as a dry-powder insulin formulation via a special aerosol device system. The phase III studies evaluating the efficiency of the inhaled insulin are already on their way. The recent phase II studies have shown, that the lung is capable of absorbing new insulin formulation in a dose-dependent and reproducible manner. However, a relatively small number of diabetic patients have been included in these studies, yet. The therapeutic efficacy and safety of the inhaled insulin is comparable to that of the usual subcutaneous insulin treatment regimens. The most important advantage of the new therapy is the enhanced therapeutic comfort of the patient who does not need to inject insulin for meal time glucose control. Generally, in terms of glycemic control, inhalable insulin offers no advantages in type 1 diabetics in comparison to an intensified conventional insulin therapy. However, before a large-scale marketing, several open questions have to be carefully investigated, the most important being the possible long-term effects of insulin inhalation for the lung, since insulin is known to have growth-promoting properties. There is still no available clinical data concerning the efficiency of the inhaled insulin in patients with pulmonary diseases which may cause problems in absorption of inhaled insulin due to the smaller cumulative alveolar surface. In smokers without pulmonary disease seems the inhaled insulin to act stronger and faster. Since therapy with inhalable insulin requires larger doses of insulin in comparison to subcutaneous insulin to achieve the same systemic effect, the costs of this therapy need to be clarified, too.

doi:10.1080/10837450.2021.1915331
Title:Preparation and evaluation of vancomycin spray-dried powders for pulmonary delivery
Authors:S. BahrainianM. RouiniK. Gilani
Absract:The aim of the current study was to achieve a dry powder formulation of vancomycin by spray drying whilst evaluating the effect of pH and excipient type and percentage used in formulation on particle characteristics and aerosolization performance. A D-optimal design was applied to optimize the formulation comprising vancomycin and two main excipient groups; a carbohydrate bulking agent (lactose, mannitol or trehalose) and a second excipient (hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin or L-leucine) at pH 4 and 7. The physicochemical properties of particles (size, morphology, crystallinity state, residual moisture content), stability, and aerosolization characteristics were investigated. Using the combination of two excipients increased the fine particle fraction of powder emitted from an Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end device at a flow rate of 60 L/min. Hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin showed more potential than L-leucine in aerosolization capabilities. Stability studies over 3 months of storage in 40 °C and 75% relative humidity suggested a good physical stability of the optimized formulation containing 17.39% hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin along with 29.61% trehalose relative to the amount of drug at pH 4. Use of two excipients including trehalose and hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin with a total weight ratio of 47% relative to the amount of drug is appropriate for the preparation of vancomycin dry powder formulation for inhalation.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Investigating the regional deposition and simulated inhaled pharmacokinetic profiles of generic dry powder inhalers
Authors:W.J. GanleyI. RossiO. MicheletB. GrosjeanS. SarrailhG. WilliamsR. PriceJ. Shur
Absract:The determination of bioequivalence (BE) for locally acting respiratory products has been a long-standing challenge in the pharmaceutical industry as the lung is typically difficult to analyze directly and there is no guarantee that local drug concentration is at equilibrium with systemic distribution. The rate and extent of drug absorption are usually assessed using in vivo pharmacokinetic (PK) studies in which generic and reference drug plasma concentrations are characterized and compared. A recent study by Sandoz demonstrated batch to batch PK differences between marketed batches of an FDAapproved US drug product-fluticasone propionate/salmeterol xinafoate (FP/SX) dry powder oral inhalation product, Advair Diskus 100/50. We investigated the performance of test dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations of tiotropium developed for the Aptar Prohaler and the reference DPI product Spiriva® HandiHaler® DPI formulations. These products were characterised using in an in-silico Regional Deposition Model (RDM) and physiologically-based pharmacokinetic simulation model (PK Simulation). The predicted pharmacokinetic profiles of both the test and reference product batch 3 were similar. Reference products batch 1, 2 and 4 had significantly lower Cmax, which maybe related to their lower predicted regional deposition. In the present study we have highlighted that significant batch to batch variability exists in the in vitro performance of the reference product Spiriva Handihaler. We have subsequently utilised in silico modelling of the regional deposition and PK simulations to highlight that variability in the peripheral dose deposition will likely impact the PK profile of test and reference products. Once validated with actual PK data these in silico tools will be powerful in ascertaining in vitro and in vivo relationships for dry powder inhalers.

doi:10.1093/ofid/ofz360.353
Title:Cns blastomycosis: A descriptive analysis and review of diagnosis and treatment
Authors:K. MajdickK. KayeM. Shorman
Absract:Background. Blastomycosis is a systemic infection, well known to regions of the Southeastern and Ohio River Basin in the United States. Inhalation of the dimorphic fungus most often causes pulmonary manifestations. Hematogenous dissemination can affect various organs in immunocompromised hosts. Central Nervous System (CNS) involvement is a rare manifestation of Blastomycosis infection, accounting for 5%-10% of extrapulmonary involvement. It is important to diagnosis early and treat due to the increased morbidity in high-risk patients. Methods. Our study retrospectively reviewed cases from a Tertiary Care Facility in East Tennessee from 2011 to 2018 with the diagnosis of CNS Blastomycosis. Data collection included demographics, risk factors, varied clinical presentation, methods of diagnosis, treatment plans and outcomes. Results. Total of 8 CNS Blastomycosis cases were identified. Detailed demographics are presented in Table 1. The average age was 52 years, 7 (87.5%) were male. 6 (75%) were classified as immunocompromised. 6 of the 8 cases were tested for HIV, all of which were negative. MRI brain imaging was utilized in 7 (87.5%) cases, which demonstrated lesion enhancements, Table 2 and Images 1 and 2. CSF was collected in 6 (75%) patients. 5 patients (62%) presented with neurological complaints. All patients received Liposomal Amphotericin B (LAmpB), followed by a prolonged course of azoles. 5 (62%) developed acute renal insufficiency after starting Amphotericin B. 2 (25%) died. Conclusion. CNS Blastomycosis is a rare diagnosis with increased morbidity and mortality. Obtaining brain imaging in addition to lumbar puncture can help in timely diagnosis of CNS Blastomycosis. Treatment involves lipid formulation of Amphotericin B followed by oral azole therapy, preferably voriconazole. Renal insufficiency was a common finding after this treatment. A high level of suspicion is crucial for recognition of CNS Blastomycosis in endemic regions of the Southeastern and Ohio River Basin. (Table Presented) .

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2018.OA2132
Title:Late breaking abstract-pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions between components of extrafine formulation of BDP/FF/GB, a novel fixed-dose triple combination for asthma and COPD
Authors:M. CellaL. GheyleC. GarofaloC. BeaudotG. Georges
Absract:This study assessed the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) interactions between beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), formoterol fumarate (FF), glycopyrronium bromide (GB), the components of a new inhaled fixed-dose triple combination pMDI for maintenance treatment of asthma and COPD. In this single-center, randomized, open-label, single-dose, 3-way crossover study, adult healthy volunteers received 4 inhalations of each of BDP/FF/GB (100/6/12.5 μg) {test, T}, BDP/FF (100/6 μg) {reference 1, R1} or GB (12.5 μg) {reference 2, R2}. Serial PK and PD assessments were collected pre-dose and up to 48 hrs post-dose. Vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECGs) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were monitored. 66 subjects were enrolled. Geometric means ratios of plasma concentration C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end and corresponding 90% CI for B17MP, FF (T/R1), GB (T/R2) were all within the pre-defined acceptance interval of 80-125%. Plasma cortisol C@sub_beginmin@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-24h@sub_end were 30% and 19% lower respectively for T compared to R2 with no significant differences observed between T and R1. TEAEs occurred in 24.2%, 29.2% and 18.5% of subjects on T, R1 and R2 respectively and none led to study drug discontinuation. There were no SAEs. The results support the absence of clinically-relevant drug-drug interactions between the BDP, FF and GB components of this extrafine fixed-dose triple combination pMDI.

doi:10.1002/jps.24599
Title:Interaction of Formulation and Device Factors Determine the in Vitro Performance of Salbutamol Sulphate Dry Powders for Inhalation
Authors:J. MuddleD. MurnaneI. ParisiniM. BrownC. PageB. Forbes
Absract:A variety of capsule-based dry powder inhalers were used to evaluate formulation-device interaction. The in vitro deposition of salbutamol sulphate (SS) was compared directly to published data for salmeterol xinafoate (SX). A 3@sup_begin2@sup_end factorial design was used to assess the effect of SS formulations with three blends of different grade coarse lactose supplemented with different levels of fine lactose. These formulations were tested for homogeneity and evaluated for their in vitro deposition using Aeroliser, Handihaler and Rotahaler devices. The performance of the SS-lactose formulations differed across the grade of lactose and amount of fine lactose used compared to the same powder compositions blended with SX. SX had a greater fine particle fraction than SS for most of the comparable formulations, probably because of the different cohesiveness of the drugs. A head-to-head comparison of 'matched' SX and SS formulations when aerosolised from the same three devices demonstrated that formulation-device interactions are as critical in determining the in vitro deposition of drug-lactose blends as the identity of the active pharmaceutical ingredient. This work has revealed the limitations of the interpretative value of published in vitro performance data generated with a single device (even at equivalent aerosolisation force), when designing formulations for a different device.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2015.1007949
Title:Aspects of pulmonary drug delivery strategies for infections in cystic fibrosis-where do we stand?
Authors:M. Klinger-StrobelC. LautenschlägerD. FischerJ.G. MainzT. BrunsL. TuchscherrM.W. PletzO. Makarewicz
Absract:Introduction: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common life-shortening hereditary disease among Caucasians and is associated with severe pulmonary damage because of decreased mucociliary clearance and subsequent chronic bacterial infections. Approximately 90% of CF patients die from lung destruction, promoted by pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Consequently, antibiotic treatment is a cornerstone of CF therapy, preventing chronic infection and reducing bacterial load, exacerbation rates and loss of pulmonary function. Many drugs are administered by inhalation to achieve high pulmonary concentration and to lower systemic side effects. However, pulmonary deposition of inhaled drugs is substantially limited by bronchial obstruction with viscous mucus and restrained by intrapulmonary bacterial biofilms.Areas covered: This review describes challenges in the therapy of CF-associated infections by inhaled antibiotics and summarizes the current state of microtechnology and nanotechnology-based pulmonary antibiotic delivery strategies. Recent and ongoing clinical trials as well as experimental approaches for microparticle/nanoparticle-based antibiotics are presented and their advantages and disadvantages are discussed.Expert opinion: Rapidly increasing antimicrobial resistance accompanied by the lack of novel antibiotics force targeted and more efficient use of the available drugs. Encapsulation of antimicrobials in nanoparticles or microparticles of organic polymers may have great potential for use in CF therapy.

doi:10.1146/annurev.bioeng.4.100101.132311
Title:Bioengineering of therapeutic aerosols
Authors:D.A. EdwardsC. Dunbar
Absract:The new field of therapeutic aerosol bioengineering (TAB), driven primarily by the medical need for inhaled insulin, is now expanding to address medical needs ranging from respiratory to systemic diseases, including asthma, growth deficiency, and pain. Bioengineering of therapeutic aerosols involves a level of aerosol particle design absent in traditional therapeutic aerosols, which are created by conventionally spraying a liquid solution or suspension of drug or milling and mixing a dry drug form into respirable particles. Bioengineered particles may be created in liquid form from devices specially designed to create an unusually fine size distribution, possibly with special purity properties, or solid particles that possess a mixture of drug and excipient, with designed shape, size, porosity, and drug release characteristics. Such aerosols have enabled several high-visibility clinical programs of inhaled insulin, as well as earlier-stage programs involving inhaled morphine, growth hormone, beta-interferon, alpha-1-antitrypsin, and several asthma drugs. The design of these aerosols, limited by partial knowledge of the lungs' physiological environment, and driven largely at this stage by market forces, relies on a mixture of new and old science, pharmaceutical science intuition, and a degree of biologicalimpact empiricism that speaks to the importance of an increased level of academic involvement.

doi:10.1016/S0168-3659(01)00475-8
Title:Enhanced pulmonary absorption following aerosol administration of mucoadhesive powder microspheres
Authors:M. SakagamiK. SakonW. KinoshitaY. Makino
Absract:Mucoadhesive, hydroxypropylcellulose (HPC) microspheres were prepared for powder inhalation and their feasibility for enhancing pulmonary drug absorption was investigated. Respirable-sized microspheres, incorporating crystalline or amorphous fluorescein (used as a model drug), were prepared by spray-drying aqueous or ethanol HPC systems, respectively. These were prepared from a variety of HPC grades (SL, L, M and H types) in different fluorescein-HPC ratios (1:1-1:10). The microspheres were administered to tracheally-intubated guinea pigs as powder aerosols and their fluorescein pharmacokinetics studied, and compared to those for pure crystalline fluorescein ('control'). All microspheres were prepared and aerosolized within a MMAD range of 1.3-2.6 μm (GSD≤2.1). Fluorescein's dissolution was increased in the amorphous form by 6.5-fold when compared to the crystalline material (83.9-87.2 vs. 13.5 μg/ml, respectively). Poor dissolution for the 'control' crystalline fluorescein appeared to be rate-determined, which showed bi-phasic absorption profiles (T@sub_beginmax@sub_end = 60 min), simultaneously competing with mucociliary clearance out of the lower airways. While the crystalline/HPC microspheres prolonged absorption, the amorphous fluorescein/HPC microspheres showed rapid absorption with T@sub_beginmax@sub_end = 0 min (immediately after the administration had terminated). This was explained by enhanced fluorescein dissolution and was consistently observed irrespective of the fluorescein-HPC ratio or HPC grade. However, the microspheres with the least viscous HPC-SL and the lowest fluorescein-HPC ratio (1:1) failed to enhance bioavailability, presumably because the mucociliary clearance was undisturbed. In contrast, the microspheres with the highly viscous HPC-H with ratios ≥1:4 successfully enhanced absorption, achieving 88.0% bioavailability by virtue of HPC increasing the dissolution and retarding the mucociliary clearance. © 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1023/A:1011964813817
Title:Ultrasonic nebulization of cationic lipid-based gene delivery systems for airway administration
Authors:R. PillaiK. PetrakP. BlezingerD. DeshpandeV. FlorackB. FreimarkG. PadmabanduA. Rolland
Absract:Purpose. This study relates to the development of gene therapies for the treatment of lung diseases. It describes for the first time the use of ultrasonic nebulization for administration of plasmid/lipid complexes to the lungs to transfect lung epithelial cells. Methods. Plasmid complexed to cationic liposomes at a specific stoichiometric ratio was nebulized using an ultrasonic nebulizer. We assessed: (i) the stability of plasmid and plasmid/lipid complexes to ultrasonic nebulization, (ii) the in vitro activity of plasmid in previously nebulized plasmid/lipid complex, (iii) the in vivo transgene expression in lungs following intratracheal instillation of nebulized plasmid/lipid formulations compared to un-nebulized complexes, (iv) the emitted dose from an ultrasonic nebulizer using plasmid/lipid complexes of different size, and (v) the transgene expression in lungs following oral inhalation of aerosolized plasmid/lipid complex generated using an ultrasonic nebulizer. Results. Integrity of plasmid formulated with cationic lipids, and colloidal stability of the plasmid/lipid complex were maintained during nebulization. In contrast, plasmid alone formulated in 10% lactose was fragmented during nebulization. The efficiency of transfection of the complex before and after nebulization was comparable. Nebulization produced respirable aerosol particles. Oral exposure of rodents for 10 minutes to aerosol produced from the ultrasonic nebulizer resulted in transgene expression in lungs in vivo. Conclusions. The performance characteristics of the ultrasonic nebulizer with our optimized plasmid/lipid formulations suggests that this device can potentially be used for administering gene medicines to the airways in clinical settings for the treatment of respiratory disorders.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.09.051
Title:Design of gefitinib-loaded poly (L-lactic acid) microspheres via a supercritical anti-solvent process for dry powder inhalation
Authors:Q. LinG. LiuZ. ZhaoD. WeiJ. PangY. Jiang
Absract:To develop a safer, more stable and potent formulation of gefitinib (GFB), micro-spheres of GFB encapsulated into poly (L-lactic acid) (PLLA) have been prepared by supercritical anti-solvent (SAS) technology in this study. Operating factors were optimized using a selected OA@sub_begin16@sub_end (4@sup_begin5@sup_end) orthogonal array design, and the properties of the raw material and SAS processed samples were characterized by different methods The results show that the GFB-loaded PLLA particles prepared were spherical, having a smaller and narrower particle size compared with raw GFB. The optimal GFB-loaded PLLA sample was prepared with less aggregation, highest GFB loading (15.82%) and smaller size (D@sub_begin50@sub_end = 2.48 μm, which meets the size of dry powder inhalers). The results of XRD and DSC indicate that GFB is encapsulated into PLLA matrix in a polymorphic form different from raw GFB. FT-IR results show that the chemical structure of GFB does not change after the SAS process. The results of in vitro release show that the optimal sample release was slower compared with raw GFB particles. Moreover, the results of in vitro anti-cancer trials show that the optimal sample had a higher cytotoxicity than raw GFB. After blending with sieved lactose, the flowability and aerosolization performance of the optimal sample for DPI were improved, with angle of repose, emitted dose and fine particles fractions from 38.4° to 23°, 63.21% to >90%, 23.37% to >30%, respectively.

doi:10.1007/s11882-009-0058-6
Title:Levalbuterol versus albuterol
Authors:B.T. AmeredesW.J. Calhoun
Absract:Albuterol has been used for more than 40 years to treat acute asthma exacerbations as a racemic mixture of isomers: the active form, (R)-albuterol, or levalbuterol, and (S)-albuterol, classically considered inert. The single-isomer formulation, levalbuterol, has been synthesized recently and used therapeutically when the racemate is deemed less desirable. Basic investigations indicate that racemic albuterol and levalbuterol can produce effects that favor asthma remediation, including corticosteroid amplification and reduction of inflammatory mediators; in contrast, (S)-albuterol produces opposite effects. With inhalation of racemic albuterol, circulating (S)-albuterol persists 12 times longer than levalbuterol, suggesting potential for paradoxical effects observed clinically. Although mainly consistent with basic findings, clinical studies suggest no overwhelming superiority of levalbuterol over racemic albuterol; however, levalbuterol's effects may be greatest in moderate to severe asthma patients, especially with racemic albuterol overuse. Recent adoption of the hydrofluoroalkane formulation has narrowed the cost gap between levalbuterol and racemic albuterol metered-dose inhalers, but it remains for the nebulized formulations. Thus, physician selection of these drugs has remained dependent on experience, pharmaceutical knowledge, and established prescribing habits combined with cost factors, formulary structures, and availability, such that racemic albuterol is still used significantly compared with levalbuterol to treat acute asthma exacerbations. © Current Medicine Group, LLC 2009.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2007.04.010
Title:Production of solid lipid nanoparticle suspensions using supercritical fluid extraction of emulsions (SFEE) for pulmonary delivery using the AERx system
Authors:P. ChattopadhyayB.Y. ShekunovD. YimD. CipollaB. BoydS. Farr
Absract:The aims of the current work included: development of a new production method for nanoparticles of water-insoluble drugs in combination with lipids, characterization of the nanoparticles and development of lipid nanosuspension formulations, and investigation of the feasibility of delivering the nanosuspensions as aerosols for inhalation using Aradigm's AERx® Single Dose Platform (SDP) with micron-sized nozzles and the all mechanical AERx Essence™ with sub-micron-sized nozzles. The continuous SFEE method was used for particle precipitation of solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN). The method allowed for production of stable particulate aqueous suspensions of a narrow size distribution, with a volume mean diameter below 30 nm (D99% cumulative volume below 100 nm). Thus the particle size obtained was significantly smaller than previously has been achieved by other techniques. The residual solvent content in the final suspension was consistently below 20 ppm. Drug loading values between 10-20% w/w drug were obtained for model compounds ketoprofen and indomethacin in formulation with lipids such as tripalmitin, tristearin and Gelucire 50/13. It was observed that the loading capacity achieved was higher than the thermodynamic limit of the solubility of the drugs in molten lipids. Lipid nanosuspension formulations were successfully aerosolized using both of the AERx systems. As measured by both cascade impactor and laser diffraction, the aerosol fine particle fraction (FPF) was comparable to drug solution formulations typically used in these devices; i.e., greater than 90% of the aerosol mass resided in particles less than 3.5 μm aerodynamic diameter. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1111/j.1399-6576.2006.01187.x
Title:Compound A and carbon monoxide production from sevoflurane and seven different types of carbon dioxide absorbent in a patient model
Authors:C. KeijzerR.S.G.M. PerezJ.J. De Lange
Absract:Background: The degradation of sevoflurane can lead to the production of compound A (CA) and carbon monoxide (CO) and an increase in temperature of the absorbent. CA is known to be nephrotoxic in rats. These reactions depend on the strong base and water contents of the carbon dioxide absorbent used. The purpose of this study was to measure the maximum amounts of CA and CO produced, and the temperature increase, for seven different carbon dioxide absorbents for sevoflurane containing different contents of strong bases. Methods: Seven absorbents [some free of strong bases (f)] were employed in hydrated (h) and completely desiccated (d) conditions in a patient model, using a circle anesthesia system connected to an artificial lung. Low-flow anesthesia with an oxygen-nitrous oxide mixture was maintained using 0.8% sevoflurane. For the quantification of CA and CO, a portable gas chromatograph was used. The temperature was measured inside the absorbent. Results: In consecutive order of CA-producing potency, Amsorb®(f)(d), Drägersorb(h), Medisorb®(h), lithium hydroxide(f)(d), Drägersorb(d), Medisorb®(d), Spherasorb®(h) and Spherasorb®(d) produced small amounts of CA. Loflosorb® and Superia®, which are free of strong bases, did not produce any CA or CO in hydrated or desiccated conditions. Only desiccated Drägersorb®, Medisorb® and Spherasorb® demonstrated small amounts of CO accompanied by a significant temperature increase. Conclusion: In this patient model, we demonstrated that different types of absorbent produced small amounts of CA and CO or none at all. No relationship could be established between temperature and CA concentration. © 2006 The Authors.

doi:10.1023/B:PHAM.0000041455.13980.f1
Title:Characterization of suspension-based metered dose inhaler formulations composed of spray-dried budesonide microcrystals dispersed in HFA-134a
Authors:T.E. TararaM.S. HartmanH. GillA.A. KennedyJ.G. Weers
Absract:Purpose. To assess the physicochemical characteristics and aerosol properties of suspensions of lipid-coated budesonide microcrystals dispersed in HFA-134a. Methods. Lipid-coated budesonide microcrystals were prepared by spray-drying an emulsion-based feedstock. Physicochemical characteristics of spray-dried particles were assessed by electron microscopy, laser diffraction, and differential scanning calorimetry. Purity and content were determined by reverse-phase HPLC. Particle aggregation and suspension stability were assessed visually, and aerosol performance was assessed by Andersen cascade impaction and dose content uniformity. Results. Spray-drying of micronized budesonide microcrystals in the presence of phospholipid-coated emulsion droplets results in the production of low-density lipid-coated microcrystals with low surface energy. These spray-dried particles form stable suspensions in HFA-134a. This translates into good uniformity in the metered dose across the contents of the inhaler and acceptable aerodynamic particle size distributions (MMAD = 3.2 to 3.4 μm). The formulation was observed to maintain its performance over 6 months at 40°C/75% RH and 16 months at 25°C/60% RH. No effect of storage orientation was observed on the content of first sprays following storage (i.e., no Cyr effect). The fine particle dose was found to be linear out to suspension concentrations of about 2% wt/vol, and FPD@sub_begin4.7μm@sub_end values approaching 400 μg can be delivered in a single inhalation. Conclusions. Engineered particles comprised of lipid-coated microcrystals may provide an acceptable alternative formulation technology for metered dose inhalers in the new hydrofluoroalkane propellants. © 2004 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13081196
Title:Preparation of poly-lactic-co-glycolic acid nanoparticles in a dry powder formulation for pulmonary antigen delivery
Authors:R. ScherließJ. Janke
Absract:One of the key requirements for successful vaccination via the mucosa is particulate antigen uptake. Poly-lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) particles were chosen as well-known model carriers and ovalbumin (OVA) as the model antigen. Aiming at application to the respiratory tract, which allows direct interaction of the formulation with the mucosal immune system, this work focuses on the feasibility of delivering the antigen in a nanoparticulate carrier within a powder capable of pulmonary delivery. Further requirements were adequate antigen encapsulation in order to use the characteristics of the particulate carrier for (tunable) antigen release, and capability of the production process for industrialisation (realisation in industry). For an effective particulate antigen uptake, nanoparticles with a size of around 300 nm were prepared. For this, two production methods for nanoparticles, solvent change precipitation and the double emulsion method, were evaluated with respect to antigen incorporation, transfer to a dry powder formulation, redispersion and antigen release characteristics. A spray drying step was included in the production procedure in order to obtain a respirable powder with an aerodynamic particle size of between 0.5 and 5 µm. The dried products were characterised for particle size, dispersibility and aerodynamic behaviour, as well as for immune response and cytotoxicity in cell culture models. It could be shown that the double emulsion method is suitable to prepare nanoparticles (270 nm) and to incorporate the antigen. By modifying the production method to prepare porous particles, it was possible to obtain an acceptable antigen release while maintaining an antigen load of about 10%. By the choice of polyvinyl alcohol as a stabiliser, nanoparticles could be dried and redispersed without further excipients and the production steps were capable of realisation in industry. Aerodynamic characteristics were good with a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 3.3 µm upon dispersion from a capsule-based inhaler.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2021.102396
Title:Site-specific delivery of inhalable antiangiogenic liposomal dry powder inhaler technology ameliorates experimental pulmonary hypertension
Authors:S. DhobleV. GhodakeV. PeshattiwarV. Patravale
Absract:Pulmonary Hypertension (PH) is the progressive increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressure (≥ 20 mmHg at rest). Current treatment modalities involve the drugs targeting at nitric oxide pathway, prostaglandin receptors, thromboxane receptors, endothelin receptors, and phosphodiesterase inhibitors, which provide the symptomatic relief. Despite these treatments, the mortality amongst the PH patients remains high due to non-reversal of the condition. Hence, there is a need for disease targeting drug therapy along with the reversal of pathomechanism of the PH. In our previous work, we have reported anti-angiogenic Erlotinib liposomal formulation by using QbD approach and its efficacy in zebrafish tail fin regeneration assay. In this study, this liposomal formulation is successfully converted into a dry powder for inhalation (DPI) using inhalable grade lactose. This DPI formulation was then evaluated for its pharmacodynamic efficacy using an in-vivo hypoxia model of PH. Right ventricular pressure measurement via jugular vein catheterization, ventricular hypertrophy, and pulmonary arterial remodeling are the parameters evaluated for the efficacy. The Erlotinib liposomal DPI formulation reduces the ventricular pressure and significantly reversed the pathological mechanism in PH as evidenced by the histological analysis of ventricular hypertrophy and pulmonary arteries.

doi:10.1038/ja.2013.32
Title:Pulmonary disposition of vancomycin nebulized as lipid vesicles in rats
Authors:M.J. De Jesús ValleJ.G. GonzálezF.G. LópezA.S. Navarro
Absract:Formulation of antibiotics as inhalable products is proposed to improve their therapeutic index when intended for the treatment of pulmonary infections; as vancomycin shows reduced values of lung partition coefficient, pulmonary administration might be an interesting alternative to conventional administration routes. An experimental study has been performed to compare the pulmonary disposition of vancomycin after inhalation of the drug formulated as a solution and as lipid vesicles (conventional liposomes or liposomes modified with chitosan). Vancomycin concentrations were determined in bronchoalveolar fluid, pulmonary tissue and blood samples from 27 Wistar rats distributed in three groups subjected to nebulisation of the drug formulated as a solution, conventional liposomes or chitosomes. Statistically significant differences between the mean drug concentrations in bronchoalveolar lavage (BALF) and lung tissue were found upon comparing the solution to lipid vesicles (116.95 μg ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end ±62.13 versus 68.34 μg ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end ±28.90 for liposomes and 65.36±22.11 μg g@sup_begin-1@sup_end for chitosomes in BALF; 222.74±37.15 μg g@sup_begin-1@sup_end versus 357.17±65.37 μg g@sup_begin-1@sup_end for liposomes and 378.83±85.87 μg g@sup_begin-1@sup_end for chitosomes in pulmonary tissue). The amount of available drug estimated by mass balance reached the highest values for chitosomes followed by liposomes (24289.66±4795.48 μg and 20207.91±5318.29 μg, respectively) and the lowest for the solution (18971.64±4765.38 μg). The drug transport and tissue uptake processes showed to be dependent on the nebulized formulation, being facilitated by the lipid vesicles that improved drug passage from the airway space to the pulmonary tissue and systemic circulation. © 2013 Japan Antibiotics Research Association All rights reserved.

doi:10.2147/DDDT.S47681
Title:Preparation and in vivo absorption evaluation of spray dried powders containing salmon calcitonin loaded chitosan nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery
Authors:C. SinsuebpolJ. ChatchawalsaisinP. Kulvanich
Absract:PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to prepare inhalable co-spray dried powders of salmon calcitonin loaded chitosan nanoparticles (sCT-CS-NPs) with mannitol and investigate pulmonary absorption in rats.

doi:10.1016/S1773-2247(11)50051-6
Title:Integrated in vitro experimental modelling of inhaled drug delivery: Deposition, dissolution and absorption
Authors:R.C. SadlerD. PrimeP.K. BurnellG.P. MartinB. Forbes
Absract:This article reviews the state-of-the-art for in vitro experimental modelling involving the deposition of respirable particles onto respiratory epithelial cells for the purpose of studying inhalation biopharmaceutics (e.g., particle uptake or translocation, drug dissolution, metabolism or absorption). Original research is reported to illustrate the issues involved in delivering respirable particles to epithelial cells in a way that replicates deposition in the lung in vivo. The adaptation of the cascade centripeter, a virtual impactor, is described. This apparatus was used to deposit salmeterol xinafoate (SX) particles with different size, shape and polymorphic composition onto the surface of air-interfaced Calu-3 respiratory epithelial cells. In this instance, no measurable difference in absorptive transfer was detected between the two types of SX particle. Dose rather than particle characteristics determined the rate of drug transfer, indicating that there is unlikely to be any value in terms of post-deposition processes in modifying the particle characteristics for this particular drug. The technique described represents a 'physiologically- relevant' method of particle presentation to airway cells and provides an opportunity to investigate biopharmaceutical processes in a lung-like environment without some of the expense and complexity associated with undertaking whole animal studies. The article concludes by considering future directions for integrative in vitro modeling of the fate of particles after deposition in the lung.

pui:47521908
Title:Pharmaceutical development of dosage forms of diamorphine for use by heroin addicts
Authors:M.G. KlousB. NuijenW. Van Den BrinkJ.M. Van ReeJ.H. Beijnen
Absract:Objective: To develop diamorphine (heroin) preparations intended for prescription in heroin-assisted treatment (HAT) to chronic treatment-refractory opioid-dependent patients. Design and methods: Diamorphine hydrochloride 3 g powder for injection solution was developed as a pharmaceutical alternative for street heroin for patients injecting the drug. The hydrochloride salt was selected for its solubility and an aseptic production process followed by lyophilisation was necessary to ensure the stability of the final product. Since most Dutch heroin addicts use heroin via 'chasing the dragon', a pharmaceutical form of diamorphine was developed that could be vaporised and subsequently inhaled by the patients in the clinical trial. During development, in vitro experiments (thermal analysis and simulation studies) were performed in search of a suitable formulation. The resulting formulation (a diamorphine + caffeine powder mixture) was filled into sachets using a microdose auger filler. The production process was characterised, optimised and validated and suitable quality controls were developed according to cGMP guidelines. As inhalation after volatilisation is an uncommon mode of administration, two methods for 'smoking' heroin were compared: volatilisation using a heating device resulted in lower exposure to heroin and its metabolites than 'chasing the dragon'. Furthermore, deuterated diamorphine was studied as a marker for use of illicit heroin by patients in HAT. Finally, paraphernalia used by patients in HAT were analysed for the presence of degradation products of diamorphine and caffeine. Results and conclusion: Diamorphine injection solution as well as a pharmaceutical form for vaporising and inhaling diamorphine could be developed successfully. Both preparations were used in clinical trials and were found suitable for treatment of chronic treatment-refractory opioid-dependent patients.

doi:10.1016/S1094-5539(02)00147-5
Title:The inhalers of the future? A review of dry powder devices on the market today
Authors:I.J. SmithM. Parry-Billings
Absract:International agreements to ban the use of environmentally damaging chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) have signalled an end to the traditional CFC-propelled pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) which has long been the mainstay of topical asthma therapy. The need for acceptable and cost-effective replacement inhalers, combined with opportunities to develop generic formulations of patent-expired drugs, has fuelled a lively response from the pharmaceutical industry. Improvements in pMDI design and reformulation with propellants such as hydrofluoroalkanes may offer significant advantages over CFC-pMDIs and prolong the widespread use of pressurised drug delivery systems for many years to come. In the longer term, however, another likely candidate for success in providing economical, efficient and acceptable inhaled therapies is the breath-actuated, multiple-dose dry powder inhaler (DPI). This review concentrates on the multiple-dose DPIs available within Europe today. © 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2147/JPR.S127602
Title:Managing severe pain and abuse potential: The potential impact of a new abuse-deterrent formulation oxycodone/naltrexone extended-release product
Authors:J.V. PergolizziR. TaylorJ.A. LeQuangR.B. Raffa
Absract:Proper management of severe pain represents one of the most challenging clinical dilemmas. Two equally important goals must be attained: the humanitarian/medical goal to relieve suffering and the societal/legal goal to not contribute to the drug abuse problem. This is an age-old problem, and the prevailing emphasis placed on one or the other goal has resulted in pendulum swings that have resulted in either undertreatment of pain or the current epidemic of misuse and abuse. In an effort to provide efficacious strong pain relievers (opioids) that are more difficult to abuse by the most dangerous routes of administration, pharmaceutical companies are developing products in which the opioid is manufactured in a formulation that is designed to be tamper resistant. Such a product is known as an abuse-deterrent formulation (ADF). ADF opioid products are designed to deter or resist abuse by making it difficult to tamper with the product and extracting the opioid for inhalation or injection. To date, less than a dozen opioid formulations have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration to carry specific ADF labeling, but this number will likely increase in the coming years. Most of these products are extended-release formulations.

doi:10.3109/10837450.2015.1086369
Title:Inhaled sildenafil nanocomposites: lung accumulation and pulmonary pharmacokinetics@sup_begin*@sup_end
Authors:E. GhasemianA. VatanaraM.R. RouiniA. Rouholamini NajafabadiK. GilaniH. LavasaniN. Mohajel
Absract:Context: Administration of sildenafil citrate (SC) is considered as a strategy in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Objective: This study reports production of the inhalable microparticles containing SC-loaded poly(lactide-co-glycolic acid)-nanoparticles. Methods: SC-nanoparticles were prepared by the double emulsion solvent evaporation method. Next, free SC and SC-loaded nanoparticles were spray dried in the presence of appropriate excipients (lactose, maltose and trehalose). Physicochemical properties and aerodynamic behavior of prepared powders were evaluated. In addition, drug accumulation from selected formulations in the rat lung tissue was compared with oral and IV administration. Results: Size and fine particle fraction of selected nanocomposites and free SC microparticles were 7 and 4.5 µm, and 60.2% and 68.2%, respectively. Following oral and IV administration, the drug was not detectable in the lung after 4 and 6 h, respectively, but in SC-loaded nanoparticles, the drug was detectable in the lung even after 12 h of inhalation. Respirable particles containing free SC provided high concentration at first that was detectable up to 6 after insufflation. Conclusion: In vivo study demonstrated that pulmonary administration of sildenafil and sildenafil nanoparticles produced longer half-life and higher concentration of the drug in the lung tissue as compared to oral and IV administration. So, these formulations could be more effective than oral and IV administration of this drug.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.11.036
Title:Coated particle assemblies for the concomitant pulmonary administration of budesonide and salbutamol sulphate
Authors:J. RaulaA. RahikkalaT. HalkolaJ. PessiL. PeltonenJ. HirvonenK. JärvinenT. LaaksonenE.I. Kauppinen
Absract:The aims were to prepare stable and well-dispersible pulmonary fine powders composed of combination drugs with different water solubility, to facilitate concomitant release of corticosteroid budesonide and short acting β-agonist salbutamol sulphate and to improve the dissolution of the budesonide. The budesonide nanosuspensions were prepared by a wet milling which were mixed then with salbutamol sulphate, mannitol (bulking material) and leucine (coating material) for the preparation of micron-sized particles by an aerosol flow reactor wherein leucine formed a rough coating layer on particle surface. The stable and intact particle assemblies showed excellent aerosolization performance. The emitted doses from the inhaler, Easyhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end, were ∼3 mg/dose with a coefficient variation of 0.1, and the fine particle fractions were ∼50%. Complete dissolution of budesonide nanocrystals from the particles took place within 20 min with the same rate as salbutamol sulphate. Combining the two formulation technologies enabled the encapsulation of drugs with different solubility into a single, intact particle. The leucine coating provided excellent aerosolization properties which allowed fine powder delivery from the inhaler without carrier particles. This study showed the feasibility of preparing powders for combination therapy that are utilized, for instance, in inhalation therapy. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s11095-012-0688-6
Title:In vitro and in vivo characterisation of PEG-lipid-based micellar complexes of salmon calcitonin for pulmonary delivery
Authors:L. BaginskiO.L. GobboF. TewesJ.J. SalomonA.M. HealyU. BakowskyC. Ehrhardt
Absract:Purpose: To investigate DSPE-PEG@sub_begin2000@sub_end-based micellar formulations of salmon calcitonin (sCT) for their ability to improve pulmonary delivery. Methods: Micelles were characterised by DLS and @sup_begin31@sup_endP-NMR spectroscopy. Stability against sCT degrading peptidases, trypsin, α-chymotrypsin and neutrophil elastase as well as their influence on transepithelial absorption was investigated in vitro. In vivo perfomance of sCT micelles was studied in an experimental model of intratracheal aerosolisation into rats. Results: Micelles with a mean hydrodynamic diameter of 12 nm spontaneously assembled, when a total concentration of 0.02 mM of PEG-lipid and sCT (at 1:1 molar ratio) was exceeded. Nuclear magnetic resonance confirmed the presence of small micellar structures. The micellar formulation showed increased stability against enzymatic digestion. In vitro studies also showed that sCT micelles were able to enhance transepithelial absorption. Data obtained from in vivo experiments provided evidence of significantly (P<0.05) higher mean plasma concentrations of sCT, after inhalation of micelles compared to sCT solution, at 60 and 90 min, a significantly higher AUC @sub_begininf@sub_end and a relative bioavailability of 160±55% when compared to plain sCT solution. Conclusions: The herein described PEG-lipid micelles are promising carriers for enhanced pulmonary delivery of sCT. © 2012 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1080/03639040802149087
Title:The influence of crystal habit on the prediction of dry powder inhalation formulation performance using the cohesive-adhesive force balance approach
Authors:J.C. HootonM.D. JonesH. HarrisJ. ShurR. Price
Absract:The aim of this investigation was to study the influence of crystalline habit of active pharmaceutical ingredients on the cohesive-adhesive force balance within model dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations and the corresponding affect on DPI formulation performance. The cohesive-adhesive balance (CAB) approach to colloid probe atomic force microscopy (AFM) was employed to determine the cohesive and adhesive interactions of micronized budesonide particles against the {102} and {002} faces of budesonide single crystals and crystalline substrates of different sugars (cyclodextrin, lactose, trehalose, raffinose, and xylitol), respectively. These data were used to measure the relative level of cohesion and adhesion via CAB and the possible influence on in vitro performance of a carrier-based DPI formulation. Varying the crystal habit of the drug had a significant effect on the cohesive measurement of micronized budesonide probes, with the cohesive values on the {102} faces being approximately twice that on the {002} crystal faces. However, although different CAB values were measured with the sugars with respect to the crystal faces chosen for the cohesive-based measurement, the overall influence on the rank order of the CAB values was not directly influenced. For these data sets, the CAB gradient indicated that a decrease in the dominance of the adhesive forces led to a concomitant increase in fine particle delivery, reaching a plateau as the cohesive forces became dominant. The study suggested that crystal habit of the primary drug crystals influences the cohesive interactions and the resulting force balance measurements of colloid probe CAB analysis. Copyright © Informa UK, Ltd.

pui:23043437
Title:Therapeutic equivalence of a fenoterol/lpratropium bromide combination (Berodual) inhaled as a dry powder and by metered dose inhaler in chronic obstructive airway disease
Authors:R.H.U. RammelocP.B. LuursemaA.P. SipsH.M. BeumerF.D.M. WaldP.J.G. Cornelissen
Absract:A randomized double-blind cross-over study was performed to compare the bronchodilator effects of a fenoterol/ipratropium bromide combination (Be-rodual) when inhaled as a dry powder and by metered dose inhaler (MDI) in an equal dosis (fenoterol 100 μg + ipratropium bromide 40 μg). Thirty-eight patients (29 male, 9 female, mean age 53 years) with reversible chronic obstructive airway disease were studied on 2 separate days by employing the double-dummy technique. The effects of the two modes of administration of the fixed combination were followed by pulmonary function tests [forced expiratory volume (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end), forced vital capacity (FVC)] from 15 min up to 6 h after administration. In addition, the pulse rate was recorded just before each pulmonary function test. The FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and FVC time-response curves showed that the dry powder had an overall efficacy profile similar to MDI. Both formulations produced clinically significant improvements in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end in approximately 10 min. Peak effects occurred in 1 h while at 6 h after test drug inhalation there was still an increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of 14%. No safety problems were observed after the use of the test drugs and no clinically significant changes in pulse rate were found. It is concluded that the dry powder of the fenoterol/ipratropium bromide combination provided effective bronchodilation of similar degree and duration to that achieved with the MDI. It would appear, therefore, to be a valuable alternative to MDI.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2016.1114603
Title:Highly respirable dry powder inhalable formulation of voriconazole with enhanced pulmonary bioavailability
Authors:S. AroraM. HaghiP.M. YoungM. KapplD. TrainiS. Jain
Absract:Objective: To develop and characterize a highly respirable dry powder inhalable formulation of voriconazole (VRZ).Methods: Powders were prepared by spray drying aqueous/alcohol solutions. Formulations were characterized in terms of particle size, morphology, thermal, moisture responses and aerosolization performance. Optimized powder was deposited onto an air-interface Calu-3 model to assess their uptake across Calu-3 lung epithelia. Optimized formulation was evaluated for stability (drug content and aerosol performance) for 3 months. Additionally, Calu-3 cell viability, lung bioavailability and tissue distribution of optimized formulation were evaluated.Results: Particle size and aerosol performance of dry powder containing 80% w/w VRZ and 20% w/w leucine was appropriate for inhalation therapy. Optimized formulation showed irregular morphology, crystalline nature, low moisture sensitivity and was stable for 3 months at room temperature. Leucine did not alter the transport kinetics of VRZ, as evaluated by air-interface Calu-3 model. Formulation was non-cytotoxic to pulmonary epithelial cells. Moreover, lung bioavailability and tissue distribution studies in murine model clearly showed that VRZ dry powder inhalable formulation has potential to enhance therapeutic efficacy at the pulmonary infection site whilst minimizing systemic exposure and related toxicity.Conclusion: This study supports the potential of inhaled dry powder VRZ for the treatment of fungal infections.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2020.09.006
Title:Contemporary Formulation Development for Inhaled Pharmaceuticals
Authors:T. SouC.A.S. Bergström
Absract:Pulmonary delivery has gained increased interests over the past few decades. For respiratory conditions, targeted drug delivery directly to the site of action can achieve a high local concentration for efficacy with reduced systemic exposure and adverse effects. For systemic conditions, the unique physiology of the lung evolutionarily designed for rapid gaseous exchange presents an entry route for systemic drug delivery. Although the development of inhaled formulations has come a long way over the last few decades, many aspects of it remain to be elucidated. In particular, a reliable and well-understood method for in vitro-in vivo correlations remains to be established. With the rapid and ongoing advancement of technology, there is much potential to better utilise computational methods including different types of modelling and simulation approaches to support inhaled formulation development. This review intends to provide an introduction on some fundamental concepts in pulmonary drug delivery and inhaled formulation development followed by discussions on some challenges and opportunities in the translation of inhaled pharmaceuticals from preclinical studies to clinical development. The review concludes with some recent advancements in modelling and simulation approaches that could play an increasingly important role in modern formulation development of inhaled pharmaceuticals.

doi:10.3109/10837450.2015.1081613
Title:Spray-dried particles as pulmonary delivery system of anti-tubercular drugs: design, optimization, in vitro and in vivo evaluation
Authors:T. GargA.K. GoyalG. RathR.S.R. Murthy
Absract:Currently, one-third of the world’s population is infected with tuberculosis (TB) mainly spread by inhalation of the tubercle bacilli, Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Patient non-compliance is the major reason for failure of anti-tubercular drugs (ATDs) chemotherapy due to multidrug administration for longer duration of time period. The main aim of current research study was to develop and characterize inhalable spray-dried particles for pulmonary delivery of ATDs, i.e., rifampicin (RIF) and isoniazid (INH). ATDs-loaded alginate particles were prepared by ionotropic gelation technique followed by spray drying and characterized on the basis of various evaluation parameters. Results showed that the optimized spray-dried particles were found to be spherical in shape with excellent flow properties. The drug release showed the biphasic pattern of release, i.e., initial burst (30–40% up to 4 h) followed by a sustained release pattern (90% up to 60 h). Optimized formulations exhibited lower cytotoxicity and excellent lung uptake up to 8 h. Optimized formulation also showed higher rate and extent of drug uptake by lungs due to preferential phagocytosis be macrophage. In future, alginate particles could be a promising carrier for targeted delivery of ATDs to alveolar macrophages for efficient management of TB.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.06.024
Title:In vitro and ex vivo methods predict the enhanced lung residence time of liposomal ciprofloxacin formulations for nebulisation
Authors:H.X. OngF. BenaoudaD. TrainiD. CipollaI. GondaM. BebawyB. ForbesP.M. Young
Absract:Liposomal ciprofloxacin formulations have been developed with the aim of enhancing lung residence time, thereby reducing the burden of inhaled antimicrobial therapy which requires multiple daily administration due to rapid absorptive clearance of antibiotics from the lungs. However, there is a lack of a predictive methodology available to assess controlled release inhalation delivery systems and their effect on drug disposition. In this study, three ciprofloxacin formulations were evaluated: a liposomal formulation, a solution formulation and a 1:1 combination of the two (mixture formulation). Different methodologies were utilised to study the release profiles of ciprofloxacin from these formulations: (i) membrane diffusion, (ii) air interface Calu-3 cells and (iii) isolated perfused rat lungs. The data from these models were compared to the performance of the formulations in vivo. The solution formulation provided the highest rate of absorptive transport followed by the mixture formulation, with the liposomal formulation providing substantially slower drug release. The rank order of drug release/transport from the different formulations was consistent across the in vitro andex vivo methods, and this was predictive of the profiles in vivo. The use of complimentary in vitro and ex vivo methodologies provided a robust analysis of formulation behaviour, including mechanistic insights, and predicted in vivo pharmacokinetics.© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1208/s12249-011-9585-2
Title:The effects of excipients and particle engineering on the biophysical stability and aerosol performance of parathyroid hormone (1-34) prepared as a dry powder for inhalation
Authors:S.A. ShoyeleN. SivadasS.-A. Cryan
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of therapeutic peptides and proteins has many advantages including high relative bioavailability, rapid systemic absorption and onset of action and a non-invasive mode of administration which improves patient compliance. In this study, we investigated the effect of spray-drying (SD) and spray freeze-drying processes on the stability and aerosol performance of parathyroid hormone (PTH) (1-34) microparticles. In this study, the stabilisation effect of trehalose (a non-reducing sugar) and Brij 97 (a non-ionic surfactant) on spray-dried PTH particles was assessed using analytical techniques including circular dichroism (CD), fluorescence spectroscopy, modulated differential scanning calorimetry and an in vitro bioactivity assay. Physical characterisation also included electron microscopy, tap density measurement and laser light diffraction. The aerosol aerodynamic performance of the formulations was assessed using the Andersen cascade impactor. Based on these studies, a formulation for spray freeze-drying was selected and the effects of the two particle engineering techniques on the biophysical stability and aerosol performance of the resulting powders was determined. CD, fluorescence spectroscopy and bioactivity data suggest that trehalose when used alone as a stabilising excipient produces a superior stabilising effect than when used in combination with a non-ionic surfactant. This highlights the utility of CD and fluorescence spectroscopy studies for the prediction of protein bioactivity post-processing. Therefore, a method and formulation suitable for the preparation of PTH as a dry powder was developed based on spray-drying PTH with trehalose as a stabiliser with the bioactivity of SD PTH containing trehalose being equivalent to that of unprocessed PTH. © 2011 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1002/jps.1094
Title:Lactose as a carrier in dry powder formulations: The influence of surface characteristics on drug delivery
Authors:X.-M. ZengG.P. MartinC. MarriottJ. Pritchard
Absract:The aim of the study was to investigate the interdependence of carrier particle size, surface treatment of the carrier, and inclusion of fines on the drug delivery from dry power inhaler formulations. Two size fractions (< 63 and 63-90 μm) of α-lactose monohydrate were subjected to treatment with 95% (v/v) ethanol to introduce small asperities or cavities onto the otherwise smooth surface without substantially changing the particle shape. After blending with albuterol sulfate [ALB; volume median diameter (VMD), 1.9 μm; geometric standard deviation (GSD), 1.5], the solvent-treated lactose produced a fine particle fraction (FPF; <6.18 μm) and dispersibility of the drug that was significantly (ANOVA p <0.01) lower than that which resulted from formulations containing untreated lactose of a similar size fraction, after aerosolization at 60 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end via a Rotahaler. The two size fractions of the treated lactose resulted in similar deposition profiles of ALB. The effects of such surface asperities or cavities of lactose were offset by introducing a small amount (5% w/w) of smaller-sized lactose (5-10 μm) to the powder formulations. The fine lactose increased the FPF and dispersibility of ALB to such a level that all lactose batches, regardless of particle size or whether solvent treated, produced a similar fraction of aerosolized ALB. The inclusion of recrystallized needle lactose (5-15 μm) was superior to micronized lactose in improving the aerosolization of ALB. The findings of this study indicate that the presence and characteristics of the finer fraction of lactose carrier particles dominate over the particle size and surface smoothness of the carrier particles in determining dispersion and deaggregation of drugs from dry powder formulations for inhalation. © 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmaceutical Association.

doi:10.1080/14760584.2019.1643242
Title:Vaccines against anthrax based on recombinant protective antigen: problems and solutions
Authors:O.A. KondakovaN.A. NikitinE.A. EvtushenkoE.M. RyabchevskayaJ.G. AtabekovO.V. Karpova
Absract:Introduction: Anthrax is a dangerous bio-terror agent because Bacillus anthracis spores are highly resilient and can be easily aerosolized and disseminated. There is a threat of deliberate use of anthrax spores aerosol that could lead to serious fatal diseases outbreaks. Existing control measures against inhalation form of the disease are limited. All of this has provided an impetus to the development of new generation vaccines. Areas сovered: This review is devoted to challenges and achievements in the design of vaccines based on the anthrax recombinant protective antigen (rPA). Scientific databases have been searched, focusing on causes of PA instability and solutions to this problem, including new approaches of rPA expression, novel rPA-based vaccines formulations as well as the simultaneous usage of PA with other anthrax antigens. Expert opinion: PA is a central anthrax toxin component, playing a key role in the defense against encapsulated and unencapsulated strains. Subunit rPA-based vaccines have a good safety and protective profile. However, there are problems of PA instability that are greatly enhanced when using aluminum adjuvants. New adjuvant compositions, dry formulations and resistant to proteolysis and deamidation mutant PA forms can help to handle this issue. Devising a modern anthrax vaccine requires huge efforts.

doi:10.2165/00126839-200405010-00004
Title:Arformoterol: (R,R)-eformoterol, (R,R)-formoterol, arformoterol tartrate, eformoterol-sepracor, formoterol-sepracor, R,R-eformoterol, R,R-formoterol
Authors:O.A. KondakovaN.A. NikitinE.A. EvtushenkoE.M. RyabchevskayaJ.G. AtabekovO.V. Karpova
Absract:Sepracor in the US is developing arformoterol [R,R-formoterol], a single isomer form of the β2-adrenoceptor agonist formoterol [eformoterol]. This isomer contains two chiral centres and is being developed as an inhaled preparation for the treatment of respiratory disorders. Sepracor believes that arformoterol has the potential to be a once-daily therapy with a rapid onset of action and a duration of effect exceeding 12 hours. In 1995, Sepracor acquired New England Pharmaceuticals, a manufacturer of metered-dose and dry powder inhalers, for the purpose of preparing formulations of levosalbutamol and arformoterol. Phase II dose-ranging clinical studies of arformoterol as a longer-acting, complementary bronchodilator were completed successfully in the fourth quarter of 2000. Phase III trials of arformoterol began in September 2001. The indications for the drug appeared to be asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, an update of the pharmaceutical product information on the Sepracor website in September 2003 listed COPD maintenance therapy as the only indication for arformoterol. In October 2002, Sepracor stated that two pivotal phase III studies were ongoing in 1600 patients. Sepracor estimates that its NDA submission for arformoterol, which is projected for the first half of 2004, will include approximately 3000 adult subjects. Sepracor stated in July 2003 that it had completed more than 100 preclinical studies and initiated or completed 15 clinical studies for arformoterol inhalation solution for the treatment of bronchospasm in patients with COPD. In addition, Sepracor stated that the two pivotal phase III studies in 1600 patients were still progressing. In 1995, European patents were granted to Sepracor for the use of arformoterol in the treatment of asthma, and the US patent application was pending.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab02.abstracts
Title:Development of a spray-dried inhalable dry powder presentation of a tuberculosis vaccine candidate with demonstrated long-term physical stability at high temperatures for use in developing countries
Authors:M. GomezJ. McCollumH. WangM. OrdoubadiN.B. CarrigyD. BaronaS. BachchhavC. JarI. TetreauM. ArcherA. GerhardtC. PressR.M. KramerC.B. FoxR. Vehring
Absract:Two key issues hindering the ability to safely and effectively distribute vaccines in the developing world are the cold chain maintenance required by many vaccines and the problems associated with needle delivery. One method of bypassing these issues is the development of a thermostable dry powder vaccine that can be administered via the pulmonary route as an aerosol. Our work focuses on developing a dry powder presentation of ID93+GLA-SE-an adjuvanted subunit Tuberculosis vaccine candidate-that is suitable for inhalation. Trehalose was utilized as a stabilizing excipient. Formulation development established trileucine as an effective dispersibility enhancing agent compatible with the vaccine candidate. ID93+GLA-SE and the excipient system were spray dried and the resulting powder was placed on a stability study. Results found that particle morphology was maintained after storage at temperatures up to 40 °C for a year. Similarly, high emitted dose (>95%) and lung dose (32-38%) as measured in vitro was preserved for one year at temperatures up to 40 °C. The chemical stability of the adjuvant system was maintained at storage temperatures up to 25 °C for as long as one year, with >80% component retention and <50% emulsion size change. After three months of storage at 40 °C the spray-dried inhalable product retained 50% of the antigen, whereas the antigen in a liquid product could not be detected after one month of storage at 37 °C.

doi:10.15171/PS.2018.32
Title:Physicochemical and aerosolization assessment of inhalable spray dried fluconazole powder
Authors:H. HamishehkarM. PourtahmasebA. BabazadehS. Alipour
Absract:Background: Respiratory fungal diseases therapy is still facing challenges as a result of increasing autoimmune disorders, cancers, and immunosuppressive medication usage. Fluconazole is a wide spectrum antifungal agent and is still used successfully in the treatment of opportunistic infections in combination with other antifungal agents. Since, the treatment of respiratory fungal diseases requires prolonged hospitalization; it may increase the chances of other opportunistic infections. Considering the reported drug resistance and adverse effects of systemic administration, it appears that localized pulmonary antifungal therapy may be a suitable alternative route. According to the reported suitable inhalation properties of spray dried powders; spray drying technique was used to prepare fluconazole powders. Methods: Different spray drying parameters such as inlet temperature, pump rate, aspiration%, solvent type, as well as fluconazole concentration were evaluated for powder production. The optimized formulations were characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and aerodynamic parameters. Results: All selected formulations showed a smooth surface with similar mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) in a respiratory acceptable range. While optimized powder showed a lower geometric standard deviation (GSD) of 1.5 with higher fine particle fraction (FPF) of 26% and almost complete deposition recovery of 97%. Conclusion: Based on in vitro characterization results, it appears that spray drying is an appropriate and cost-effective technique for the production of inhalable fluconazole powder. It is characterized by a narrower size distribution and delivers a higher dose which may be more cost effective for mass production.

doi:10.2174/1570159X15666170510143821
Title:Levodopa in parkinson’s disease: Current status and future developments
Authors:N. TambascoM. RomoliP. Calabresi
Absract:Background: Ever since the pioneering reports in the 60s, L-3,4-Dioxyphenylalanine (levodopa) has represented the gold standard for the treatment of Parkinson’s Disease (PD). However, long-term levodopa (LD) treatment is frequently associated with fluctuations in motor response with serious impact on patient quality of life. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of LD are pivotal to such motor fluctuations: discontinuous drug delivery, short half-life, poor bioavailability, and narrow therapeutic window are all crucial for such fluctuations. During the last 60 years, several attempts have been made to improve LD treatment and avoid long-term complications. Methods: Research and trials to improve the LD pharmacokinetic since 1960s are reviewed, summarizing the progressive improvements of LD treatment. Results: Inhibitors of peripheral amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) have been introduced to achieve proper LD concentration in the central nervous system reducing systemic adverse events. Inhibitors of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) increased LD half-life and bioavailability. Efforts are still being made to achieve a continuous dopaminergic stimulation, with the combination of oral LD with an AADC inhibitor and a COMT inhibitor, or the intra-duodenal water-based LD/ carbidopa gel. Further approaches to enhance LD efficacy are focused on new non-oral administration routes, including nasal, intra-duodenal, intrapulmonary (CVT-301) and subcutaneous (ND0612), as well as on novel ER formulations, including IPX066, which recently concluded phase III trial. Conclusion: New LD formulations, oral compounds as well as routes have been tested in the last years, with two main targets: achieve continuous dopaminergic stimulation and find an instant deliver route for LD.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2012.01.045
Title:Development of chitosan-based nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery of itraconazole as dry powder formulation
Authors:S. JafarinejadK. GilaniE. MoazeniM. Ghazi-KhansariA.R. NajafabadiN. Mohajel
Absract:The aim of current study was to illustrate a strategy to encapsulate itraconazole into chitosan-based nanoparticles using a modified ionic gelation method and to fabricate them as inhalable microparticles using spray drying technique. Different ratios of chitosan:tripolyphosphate (TPP) were prepared at pH 1.2, using higher ratios of TPP with respect to chitosan. The highest encapsulation efficiency of itraconazole into chitosan nanoparticles was found to be about 55% at 1:3 ratio of chitosan:TPP. Increasing the amount of TPP 4 times higher than chitosan resulted in the production of large particles in micron scale. Below the ratio of 1:3, the particle sizes ranged from 190 to 240. nm. Nanoparticles were characterized for morphology by TEM images. Microparticles were prepared by co-spray drying of nanoparticles with 2.5, 10 and 20% of lactose and mannitol with or without 10% of leucine, with respect to nanoparticle weights. In vitro inhalation parameters including fine particle fraction (FPF) and emitted dose percentage (ED%) were measured by a twin stage impinger (TSI). The in vitro deposition data indicated that processing of nanoparticles with mannitol and leucine could improve the aerosolization properties of the drug significantly. © 2012 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.2165/00151829-200504030-00006
Title:Ipratropium bromide HFA
Authors:K. Wellington
Absract:Ipratropium bromide is a nonselective antagonist of the muscarinic receptors located on airway smooth muscle, and is delivered via a metered-dose inhaler (MDI). Because of the requirement to phase out chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-propelled MDIs, the ipratropium bromide inhalation aerosol MDI has been redesigned with a hydrofluoroalkane as the propellant (ipratropium bromide HFA). Ipratropium bromide HFA has recently been approved in the US for the maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with COPD. Ipratropium bromide HFA 42μg four times daily (one dose [42μg] is delivered via two puffs of the inhaler) demonstrated comparable efficacy to that of ipratropium bromide CFC 42μg four times daily, as measured by spirometric testing, in a large, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 12-week trial in patients with stable COPD. Similarly, four-times-daily ipratropium bromide HFA 42μg and ipratropium bromide CFC 42μg provided a comparable degree of bronchodilation in patients with stable COPD during a 1-year, open-label study primarily designed to assess safety. In both studies, the tolerability profiles of ipratropium bromide HFA and ipratropium bromide CFC were comparable. The most common adverse events were related to respiratory system disorders. During the 1-year study, dry mouth was reported by 1.3% and 0.7% of patients in the ipratropium bromide HFA or ipratropium bromide CFC groups. © 2005 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0962-4562(03)00057-2
Title:Comparative study of antimicrobial and cytotoxic effects of selected essential oils by gaseous and solution contacts
Authors:S. InouyeS. AbeH. YamaguchiM. Asakura
Absract:The inhibitory activity of four essential oils against three fungi, two bacteria and a mammalian cell line was determined by gaseous and solution contact. Among the four oils, cinnamon bark oil showed the highest antimicrobial activity followed by thyme, perilla and lavender oils by both gaseous and solution contact. However, the growth of test organisms was inhibited more efficiently by gaseous contact than by solution contact, indicating the significant contribution of the direct vapour effect on the antimicrobial activity. The rank of the cytotoxicity against Chinese hamster cells was not in agreement with that of the antimicrobial activity. Thyme oil showed the highest toxicity by gaseous contact, but the least toxicity by solution contact. Lavender oil showed relatively high toxicity by solution contact compared with gaseous contact. Based on the enhanced bioactivity by gaseous contact, cinnamon bark, perilla and lavender oils may be used favourably in the gaseous state, while thyme oil may be used in aqueous medium due to its reduced toxicity in solution and enhanced toxicity in the vapour state. © 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2020.08.040
Title:Design and evaluation of inhalable nanocrystals embedded microparticles with enhanced redispersibility and bioavailability for breviscapine
Authors:Y. ChenY. GuiY. LuoY. LiuL. TuY. MaP. YueM. Yang
Absract:The purpose of this study was to design novel inhalable nanocrystals embedded microparticles for pulmonary delivery of breviscapine (BVC). The TPGS modified BVC nanocrystals (BVC-NC@TPGS) were fabricated by high pressure homogenization. And the BVC-NC@TPGS was further converted into nanocrystals-embedded microparticles (BVC-NEP) via spray-drying. The influence of matrix formers and concentration on the properties of BVC-NEP for inhalation was investigated. The particle size, morphology, drug crystal state, in vitro aerodynamic performance, in vitro release behavior and pharmacokinetic behaviors were characterized. It was demonstrated that the morphology, lung deposition as well as in vitro drug release from the microparticles were significantly influenced by matrix formers type and concentration. BVC-NEP with 10% TPGS as stabilizer and 200% MN as matrix formers presented the highest FPF value and most excellent flowability as well as redispersibility. Further the in vivo pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated that the AUC@sub_begin(0@sub_end@sub_begin−@sub_end@sub_begin∞)@sub_end of the inhalable BVC-NEP/MN (1411.099 ± 334.62 μg/L h) was 6.29 times (p < 0.05) as high as that of the coarse BVC (224.21 ± 59.47 μg/L h), and not significantly from that of BVC injection. Therefore, inhalable nanocrystals-embedded microparticles could be a promising strategy for pulmonary delivery of poorly soluble drugs that was unfittable for oral administration.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2021.ab01.abstracts
Title:The influence of blend composition on the aerodynamic performance of a novel high resistance multi-dose device
Authors:I. RossiW.J. GanleyA. DansonC. MestiriG. FariasD. FarrowG. DeraimeS. SerrailhR. PriceJ. Shur
Absract:High resistance multi-dose inhaler devices are prescribed to Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and asthma patients regardless of the severity of their disease, due to their easier handling and low peak inhalation flow (PIF) required. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of different blend composition on the aerodynamic performance of Aptar Prohaler ® (Aptar Pharma, FR), a novel high resistance multi-dose inhaler. Fluticasone propionate was blended (0.8% w/w) with lactose (Dv,50 74 μm) to manufacture 8 different formulations comprising different percentages of fine lactose (Dv,50 3 μm, 0 up to 5% w/w) and/or a force control agent (FCA). Strips were filled with 5mg of formulation using Omnidose TT (Harro Höfliger, DE) and subsequently loaded into Prohaler®. Aerodynamic performance was tested employing a Next Generation Impactor (Copley Scientific, UK) at 39 L.min@sup_begin-1@sup_end for 3.1 seconds. Data analysis was performed using R statistical software. The presence of FCA significantly increased the Fine Particle Mass (FPM) as well as a higher fine lactose percentage. However, the latter was significant only in the formulations without FCA. Formulations with FCA showed the best performance (Fine Particle Fraction=45%) overall. Mass Median Aerodynamic Diameter (MMAD) did not change significantly with an increased percentage of fine lactose. However, when FCA was used the lower MMAD was recorded (2.10-0.15 μm). The study highlighted that the use of a FCA, in a model blend formulation and in Prohaler® device, positively increased the FPM and produced a lower MMAD.

doi:10.1007/s13181-019-00699-x
Title:Pediatric exposures related to medical marijuana: A poison control prospective
Authors:S. HuntingtonR. VohraK. BrownE. Zamanpour
Absract:Background: Medical use marijuana is currently approved in 32 US states, and with this increased access there is a potential for increased exposure in pediatric patients. Research Question: How does the availability of medical marijuana impact the type and number of pediatric exposures to cannabis? Methods: This is an IRB-exempt, retrospective review of pediatric exposures reported to a statewide poison control system from 2010 to 2016. We investigated poison control case records using the American Association of Poison Control Center's generic code for tetrahydrocannabinol, as well a free text search for THC, marijuana, weed, pot, and edible. Cases were included if the patient was younger than 18 years old and excluded if the record was a non-exposure, patient was non-human, the wrong substance was coded, or had no clinical data. Descriptive statistics were performed. Results: A total of 1188 cases were identified, and 815 cases were included in the study. The median age of exposure was 14 years old. Ingestion exposures occurred in 63% of cases, followed by inhalation occurring in 22% of cases, other routes occurring in 1%, and unknown route occurring in 13%. Formulation of THC was 51% cases exposed to edibles, 11% exposed to plant material, 4% exposed to oils, 2% other, 0.4% topical, and 31% were unknown. Reason for exposure in children younger than 5 years old was accidental (91%) versus children aged 11- 17 years old was more for abuse (78%). From 2010 to 2016, exposure rates increased from 70 cases in 2010 to 207 cases in 2016. Discussion: Over 6 years during medical marijuana legalization, exposures rates continually rose to three times that of the first year. Oral exposure to cannabis edibles was the most common scenario. Conclusion: The increasing trend in pediatric exposures is expected to continue as more states legalize medical and recreational use marijuana.

doi:10.1016/j.taap.2016.03.001
Title:Development and assessment of countermeasure formulations for treatment of lung injury induced by chlorine inhalation
Authors:G.W. HoyleJ. ChenC.F. SchlueterY. MoD.M. HumphreyG. RawsonJ.A. NiñoK.H. Carson
Absract:Chlorine is a commonly used, reactive compound to which humans can be exposed via accidental or intentional release resulting in acute lung injury. Formulations of rolipram (a phosphodiesterase inhibitor), triptolide (a natural plant product with anti-inflammatory properties), and budesonide (a corticosteroid), either neat or in conjunction with poly(lactic:glycolic acid) (PLGA), were developed for treatment of chlorine-induced acute lung injury by intramuscular injection. Formulations were produced by spray-drying, which generated generally spherical microparticles that were suitable for intramuscular injection. Multiple parameters were varied to produce formulations with a wide range of in vitro release kinetics. Testing of selected formulations in chlorine-exposed mice demonstrated efficacy against key aspects of acute lung injury. The results show the feasibility of developing microencapsulated formulations that could be used to treat chlorine-induced acute lung injury by intramuscular injection, which represents a preferred route of administration in a mass casualty situation.

doi:10.1007/s11095-015-1820-1
Title:Multivariate Analysis of Effects of Asthmatic Patient Respiratory Profiles on the in Vitro Performance of a Reservoir Multidose and a Capsule-Based Dry Powder Inhaler
Authors:F. ButtiniI. PasqualiG. BrambillaD. CopelliM.D. AlberiA.G. BalducciR. BettiniV. Sisti
Absract:Purpose: The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of two different dry powder inhalers, of the NGI induction port and Alberta throat and of the actual inspiratory profiles of asthmatic patients on in-vitro drug inhalation performances. Methods: The two devices considered were a reservoir multidose and a capsule-based inhaler. The formulation used to test the inhalers was a combination of formoterol fumarate and beclomethasone dipropionate. A breath simulator was used to mimic inhalatory patterns previously determined in vivo. A multivariate approach was adopted to estimate the significance of the effect of the investigated variables in the explored domain. Results: Breath simulator was a useful tool to mimic in vitro the in vivo inspiratory profiles of asthmatic patients. The type of throat coupled with the impactor did not affect the aerodynamic distribution of the investigated formulation. However, the type of inhaler and inspiratory profiles affected the respirable dose of drugs. Conclusions: The multivariate statistical approach demonstrated that the multidose inhaler, released efficiently a high fine particle mass independently from the inspiratory profiles adopted. Differently, the single dose capsule inhaler, showed a significant decrease of fine particle mass of both drugs when the device was activated using the minimum inspiratory volume (592 mL).

doi:10.2174/1872211308666141028214003
Title:Recent survey on nanosuspension: A patent overview
Authors:S.I. JetharaA.D. PatelM.R. PatelM.S. PatelK.R. Patel
Absract:The major goals of designing nanosuspension of nanosize materials are increasing due to their tremendous potential as a drug delivery system with the wide range of applications. Nanosuspension is a unique tool for improving the bioavailability of poorly soluble drugs. Nanosuspension drug delivery has wide range of application like oral, injectable, transdermal, inhalation, peroral, ocular, pulmonary and topical etc. by improviing the bioavailability, reducing the dose, gastric irritation, decreasing intra subject variability and increasing adhesivness with intestinal membrane. Recently, nanosuspension has been received much interest as a way to resolve solubility and stability problem because of their cost-effectiveness and technical simplicity compare to other liposome and colloidal drug carriers. Nanosuspensions are engaged to control particle size, surface properties and release of pharmacologically active agents in order to achieve the site-specific action of the drug at the therapeutically optimal rate, improve the bioavaibility of drug with poor solubility and dose regimen. Application and preparation method of nanosuspension has been reported by research articles and patented in different countries. Most of the marketed nanosuspensions are in preclinical and clinical based study for its application. More than 100 patents have been published on nanosuspensions by the recent days. This patent reviews covers different methods of pharmaceutical preparation and applications in drug delivery as well as the recent marketed published or granted patent surveys. This patent review is useful in enhance the knowledge of controlled drug delivery and applications.

pui:44831766
Title:Validation study of the unguator, an apparatus for compounding dermatological preparations
Authors:M. PietteT. StassenR. KingetL. Delattre
Absract:A study was conducted at the Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Technology, University of Liège, Belgium, of the performance of the Unguator Mixing System, an instrument belonging to a new generation of electronic mortar and pestle apparatus, which was designed to improve pharmaceutical compounding, provide pharmaceutically elegant preparations, and reduce nonproductive time. The goal of this study was to verify that preparations that met the actual quality criteria 'established by the United States Pharmacopeia, the Therapeutic Compounding Formulary, and the British Pharmacopoeia could be achieved by using the Unguator Mixing System. To achieve this goal, the optimal conditions, such as speed, mixing time, and order of addition of the components, were determined for each of several representative preparations. Two different systems were studied, the Unguator 2000 and the Unguator E/S, and effectiveness of standard and disposable blades was examined. Formulations prepared during the study were tested for appearance, microscopic appearance, and, when judged necessary, uniformity of content. Study results revealed that both models tested were less suitable for preparation of gel bases than for other types of bases. Very positive and reproducible results were obtained with compositions containing a low content of active ingredient in hydrophobic ointment or hydrophilic cream. A hydrophobic drug such as clioquinol can be mixed effectively in a hydrophilic carbomer gel with either model, as quantitative assays of different batches showed per-feet homogeneity, and microscopic examination found no large agglomerates. Special conditions were required for a material such as benzoyl peroxide, which consists of large and hard agglomerates. Salicylic acid hydrophobic 10% ointment can be prepared without any difficulty with both models. Both systems provide full protection for the operator against dust inhalation, since all preparation steps, with the exception of weighing the ingredients, occur in closed containers.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2.6.965
Title:Paediatric pulmonary drug delivery: Considerations in asthma treatment
Authors:W.E. Berger
Absract:Aerosol therapy, the preferred route of administration for glucocorticosteroids and short-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonists in the treatment of paediatric asthma, may be given via nebulisers, metered-dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers. For glucocorticosteroids, therapy with aerosolised medication results in higher concentrations of drug at the target organ with minimal systemic side effects compared with oral treatments. The dose of drug that reaches the airways in children with asthma is dependent on both the delivery device and patient-related factors. Factors that affect aerosol drug delivery are reviewed briefly. Advantages and disadvantages of each device and device-specific factors that influence patient preferences are examined. Although age-based device recommendations have been made, the optimal choice for drug delivery is the one that the patient or caregiver prefers to use, can use correctly and is most likely to use consistently. © 2005 Ashley Publications.

doi:10.1177/1091581818818422
Title:A 6-month inhalation study in Apoe@sup_begin-/-@sup_end mice to investigate cardiovascular and respiratory exposure effects of e-vapor aerosols compared with cigarette smoke
Authors:E.T. WongJ. SzostakT. LeeS.K.C. WongG.J. LohP. LeroyG. VuillaumeM. LeeM.C. PeitschP. VanscheeuwijckJ. Hoeng
Absract:Chronic exposure to cigarette smoke is a risk factor for the development and progression of cardiovascular disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Considerable attention has been given to the potential reduced harm of e-cigarettes (e-cigs). Here, ApoE@sup_begin-/-@sup_end mice were used to evaluate lung inflammation, atherosclerosis development, and the underlying molecular changes upon 6-month exposure to mainstream cigarette smoke (CS) from a 3R4F reference cigarette or to e-cig aerosols. Capillary aerosol generators were used to generate e-vapor products containing various e-liquids (CARRIER containing humectants alone, BASE containing humectants and 4% nicotine, and TESTMIX containing humectants, 4% nicotine, and flavors). ApoE@sup_begin-/-@sup_end mice were exposed at matched nicotine concentration, 36 μg/L, to CS and the e-cig aerosols ( BASE and TESTMIX ). Aerosol particle sizes were within the respirable range, from 0.71 to 0.90 μm for 3R4F CS and 0.74 to 1.28 μm for e-cig aerosols. Pulmonary inflammation and atherosclerotic plaque areas, as well as cholesterol concentrations in serum or lipoprotein fraction, were quantified at months 3 and 6. In contrast to CS, exposure to e-cig aerosols resulted in no increase in leukocyte counts, serum cholesterol concentration, aortic plaque formation, and lung matrix metalloproteinase activity compared with exposure to fresh air. Furthermore, no differences were observed among the exposures to CARRIER, BASE, and TESTMIX aerosols. In conclusion, none of these e-liquid formulations gave rise to the disease mechanisms related to atherosclerosis and lung inflammation that were elicited by CS in the ApoE@sup_begin-/-@sup_end mouse model.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2018.05.014
Title:Development and evaluation of terbutaline sulfate orally disintegrating tablets by direct compression and freeze drying methods
Authors:T. GulsunY. Akdag CayliN. IzatM. CetinL. OnerS. Sahin
Absract:Asthma is a chronic respiratory condition characterized by attacks of spasm in the bronchi of the lungs, causing difficulty in breathing. Oral and inhalation routes are generally used for the treatment of asthma. Terbutaline sulfate (TBS), is a widely used bronchodilator for the treatment of asthma, is available in formulations in the market. However, there is no commercially available orally disintegrating tablets (ODTs) containing TBS. Therefore, this study was aimed to develop and characterize TBS-containing ODTs. ODTs were prepared using freeze-drying technique and direct compression using ready-to-use ODT excipients Ludiflash@sup_begin®@sup_end and Parteck ODT@sup_begin®@sup_end. Quality controls and permeability study across Caco-2 cells were performed. ODTs prepared by direct compression were disintegrated within 3 min, and freeze-dried ODT in 11 s. Acceptance value for content uniformity was 13.2% for freeze-dried ODTs, and about 22% for direct compressed ODTs. In vitro dissolution test showed that commercial tablet and all ODTs fulfilled the tolerance limit recommended in TBS conventional tablet monograph of USP. Results of the permeability studies demonstrated that TBS can be classified as a well absorbed compound. All these results indicate that to improve patient compliance, ODT approach for TBS can be used to improve patient compliance and also for rapid onset of action.

doi:10.17179/excli2016-845
Title:Lungs deposition and pharmacokinetic study of submicron budesonide particles in Wistar rats intended for immediate effect in asthma
Authors:A. RaufA. BhatnagarS.S. SisodiaR.K. KharF.J. Ahmad
Absract:The purpose of the present investigation was to study the aerosolization, lungs deposition and pharmacokinetic study of inhalable submicron particles of budesonide in male Wistar rats. Submicron particles were prepared by antisolvent nanoprecipitation method and freeze-dried to obtain free flowing powder. The freeze-drying process yielded dry powder with desirable aerodynamic properties for inhalation therapy. An in-house model inhaler was designed to deliver medicine to lungs, optimized at dose level of 10 mg for 30 sec of fluidization. The in vitro aerosolization study demonstrates that submicron particles dissolve faster with improved aerosolization effect as compared to micronized budesonide. Both submicron and micron particles were compared for in vivo lungs deposition. The results showed that relatively high quantity of submicron particles reaches deep into the lungs as compared to micron particles. Most pronounced effect observed with submicron particles from pharmacokinetic parameters was the enhancement in peak plasma concentration (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) by 28.85 %, and increase in area under concentration curve (AUC@sub_begin0–8h@sub_end) by 30.33 % compared to micron sized particles. The results suggested that developed submicronized formulation of budesonide can be used for pulmonary drug delivery for high deposition to deep lungs tissues.

doi:10.1002/jat.2950
Title:Foamy macrophage responses in the rat lung following exposure to inhaled pharmaceuticals: A simple, pragmatic approach for inhaled drug development
Authors:D.J. LewisT.C. WilliamsS.L. Beck
Absract:Successes in the field of respiratory medicines are largely limited to three main target classes: β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic receptor agonists, muscarinic antagonists and corticosteroids. A significant factor in attrition during the development of respiratory medicines is the induction of foamy macrophage responses, particularly, in rats. The term foamy macrophage describes a vacuolated cytoplasmic appearance, seen by light microscopy, which is ultrastructurally characterized by the presence of lysosomal lamellar bodies, neutral lipid droplets or drug particles. We propose a simple classification, based light-heartedly on the theme 'the good, the bad and the ugly', which allows important distinctions to be made between phenotypes, aetiologies and adversity. Foamy macrophages induced in rat lungs by exposure to inhaled β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists, antimuscarinics and corticosteroids are simple aggregates of uniform cells without other associated pathologies. In contrast, macrophage reactions induced by some other inhaled drug classes are more complex, associated with neutrophilic or lymphocytic infiltrations with/without damage to the adjacent alveolar walls. Foamy macrophage responses induced by inhaled drugs may be ascribed to either phagocytosis of poorly soluble drug particles, or to pharmacology. Both corticosteroids and β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists increase surfactant synthesis whereas muscarinic antagonists may decrease surfactant breakdown, due to inhibition of phospholipase C, both of which lead to phagocytosis of excess surfactant. Simple foamy macrophage responses are considered non-adverse, whereas ones that are more complex are designated as adverse. The development of foamy macrophage responses has led to confusion in interpretation and we hope this review helps clarify what is in fact a relatively simple, predictable, easily interpretable, commonly induced change. © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

doi:10.1111/j.1574-695X.2010.00755.x
Title:Levofloxacin reduces inflammatory cytokine levels in human bronchial epithelia cells: Implications for aerosol MP-376 (levofloxacin solution for inhalation) treatment of chronic pulmonary infections
Authors:R. TsivkovskiiM. SabetZ. TaraziD.C. GriffithO. LomovskayaM.N. Dudley
Absract:Inflammation resulting from chronic bacterial infection in the lung contributes to long-term pulmonary complications in chronic pulmonary infections such as cystic fibrosis. Aerosol administration of levofloxacin as in the form of the investigational formulation MP-376 results in higher concentrations in lung tissues that are higher than those that can be attained with oral or intravenous dosing of levofloxacin. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of high concentrations of levofloxacin achieved with aerosol administration of MP-376 on proinflammatory cytokine secretion by immortalized human bronchial epithelia cells in vitro. Additionally, we investigated the potential mechanisms of the immunomodulatory effect of levofloxacin. In vitro studies in human lung epithelial cell lines showed that levofloxacin led to a dose-related reduction in IL-6 and IL-8 concentrations, with 300μgmL@sup_begin-1@sup_end resulting in the reduction of levels of IL-6 by fourfold and IL-8 by twofold (P<0.05); in contrast, tobramycin increased IL-6 levels by 50%, but had no effect on IL-8. Levofloxacin treatment did not affect the cytokine mRNA level and nuclear factor-κB-dependent promoter activity. These findings suggest that high concentrations of levofloxacin obtained in pulmonary tissues following the administration of aerosol MP-376 may provide additional benefits in patients with chronic pulmonary infections that are independent of its antibacterial properties. © 2010 MPEX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. FEMS Immunology & Medical Microbiology © 2010 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Co-spray dried lipid-based dry powder for inhalation for systemic delivery of analgesics: Solid state and aerodynamic assessment
Authors:C. CorzoD. LochmannA. ZimmerS. Salar-Behzadi
Absract:Despite of their challenging solid state behaviour, lipid-based excipients (LBE) are widely used matrixes for modified drug release in oral and dermal formulations. The biodegradability of LBE offer a beneficial platform for local and systemic pulmonary drug delivery. For these, readily inhalable and highly engineered lipid particles are desirable. Spray drying is the most versatile manufacturing process for particle engineering, however the low-melting points, polymorphism and phase transitions of LBE impair the process and product performance. Strong knowledge on the solid state of LBE can provide a rational design for controlling phase transitions and overcoming these impairments. In this research, the solid state of a LBE-drug system was assessed. The findings were applied to select suitable process parameters of conventional spray drying. The final formulation is envisaged as a co-spray dried lipid-based DPI for systemic delivery of analgetics with modified release for acute pain therapy, when an oral medication is not possible. Glyceryl dibehenate (GD) and Ibuprofen (IBU) were used as model LBE and model drug, respectively. The solid state assessment of GD:IBU system revealed melting point depression without polymorphic transitions. Solid-liquid (S-L) regions and temperature boundaries were established and applied to spray drying. An outlet temperature below the S-L region was achieved, consequently powder was successfully collected. The produced powder showed promising in vitro performance with geometric diameter of 5.070lm, MMAD of 4.491lm and FPF of 37.4%. This research comprises a platform for optimizing conventional spray drying to manufacture lipid-based DPI based on a rational solid state assessment.

doi:10.1002/(ISSN)1532-6535
Title:Physiologically-based pharmacokinetic modeling of inhaled aerosol predicts marked gastrointestinal absorption of nicotine in rats
Authors:A. KolliF. MartinY. XangB. TitzE. WongW.K. SchlageE. VeljkovicP. VanscheeuwijckJ. Hoeng
Absract:Background: Pharmacokinetics (PK) of inhaled aerosol depends on the deposition fraction, the extent and rate of absorption in aerodigestive tract and pulmonary absorption, systemic distribution, and clearance. Our objective was to describe the absorption and disposition characteristics of inhaled nicotine containing aerosol in rats. Methods: As per OECD guidelines for subacute inhalation toxicity testing, 12 male Sprague-Dawley rats per group were exposed (nose-only) to formulations containing 23 and 50μg/L concentrations of nicotine for 6 h/day for 5 days/week for 2 weeks. The plasma concentrations of nicotine and cotinine were monitored 16 hours post-exposure on days 4 and 11. We built a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model for inhaled formulations in R using mrgsolve package@sup_begin1@sup_end and parameters from Plowchalk et al.@sup_begin2@sup_end. The fraction of aerosol (F) entering lung and GI, absorption rate from GI (kGI), nicotine metabolism (Vmax) and cotinine elimination (kEL) were fitted using global optimization package GenSA@sup_begin3@sup_end to plasma concentrations. Results: Plasma time courses of nicotine and cotinine showed no difference after 2 weeks of dosing and fell within the model predicted 5%-95% percentiles. Nicotine Cmax was 602.9 and 1361.1 ng/mL for 23 and 50 μg/L exposures respectively. Only 60.4% of aerosol was absorbed through lungs and 39.6% was absorbed through GI at a kGI of 0.175 per hour. Nicotine half-life was 1.2 per hour even after marked GI absorption. Conclusion: The model predicts systemic exposures for inhaled aerosols by estimating fractions deposited in lung and GI. It can guide formulation of aerosols and inform population-based PBPK model to predict exposures of inhaled aerosols.

doi:10.1186/s13613-016-0140-x
Title:Characteristics of an ideal nebulized antibiotic for the treatment of pneumonia in the intubated patient
Authors:M. BassettiC.-E. LuytD.P. NicolauJ. Pugin
Absract:Gram-negative pneumonia in patients who are intubated and mechanically ventilated is associated with increased morbidity and mortality as well as higher healthcare costs compared with those who do not have the disease. Intravenous antibiotics are currently the standard of care for pneumonia; however, increasing rates of multidrug resistance and limited penetration of some classes of antimicrobials into the lungs reduce the effectiveness of this treatment option, and current clinical cure rates are variable, while recurrence rates remain high. Inhaled antibiotics may have the potential to improve outcomes in this patient population, but their use is currently restricted by a lack of specifically formulated solutions for inhalation and a limited number of devices designed for the nebulization of antibiotics. In this article, we review the challenges clinicians face in the treatment of pneumonia and discuss the characteristics that would constitute an ideal inhaled drug/device combination. We also review inhaled antibiotic options currently in development for the treatment of pneumonia in patients who are intubated and mechanically ventilated.

doi:10.3109/1061186X.2013.878944
Title:Inhalable microspheres embedding chitosan-coated PLGA nanoparticles for 2-methoxyestradiol
Authors:X. GuoX. ZhangL. YeY. ZhangR. DingY. HaoY. ZhaoZ. ZhangY. Zhang
Absract:Developing a highly effective and lung-targeted local drug delivery carrier with low irritancy may be critical for improving treatment of lung cancer. Using soluble excipients as microspheres (MS) matrix, respirable MS embedding chitosan-coated poly(d,l-lactide-co-glycolide) nanoparticles (CNP-MS) for 2-methoxyestradiol (2-ME) were designed, which could avoid macrophage phagocytosis to achieve the targeted delivery of these drugs. 2-ME CNP-MS were prepared by spray-drying and characterized by morphology, redispersability, fine particle fraction (FPF) and drug release. Cytotoxicity, and lung deposition and histological examination were investigated. Results showed that 2-ME CNP-MS were spherical with a rough surfaces, exhibiting good redispersability, a high respirable fraction and sustained release characteristics. CNP-MS markedly enhanced the cytotoxicity of 2-ME by approximately 8.8-fold and 3.65-fold on SPC-A1 cells compared to solution and NP, respectively. After pulmonary administration, 2-ME CNP were distributed in rat lungs and for 10 g of 2-ME CNP-MS, haematoxylin and eosin staining showed no obvious difference compared to the untreated control group. Therefore, CNP-MS revealed suitable features for local lung delivery and significantly enhanced cytotoxicity of 2-ME without obvious inflammation in lungs of rats, suggesting that 2-ME CNP-MS have great potential as an inhalation agent for targeted, highly effective and safe treatment of lung cancer. © 2014 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved: reproduction in whole or part not permitted.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.0908
Title:Importance of powder residence time for the aerosol delivery performance of a commercial dry powder inhaler aerolizer®
Authors:L. JiangY. TangH. ZhangX. LuX. ChenJ. Zhu
Absract:Background: The performance of dry powder aerosol delivery systems depends not only on the powder formulation but also on the dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Effects of turbulence, grid, mouthpiece, inlet size, air flow, and capsule on the DPIs performance have been investigated previously. Considering powder dispersion in DPIs is a time-dependent process, the powder residence time in DPIs is supposed to have a great impact on DPIs efficiency. This study sought to investigate the effect of powder residence time on the performance of a commercial DPI Aerolizer®. Methods: A standard Aerolizer® (SD) and five modified devices (MD1, MD2, MD3, MD4, and MD5) were employed for this research. Computational fluid dynamics analysis was used to calculate the flow field and the powder residence time in these devices. Recombinant human interleukin-2 inhalation powders and a twin impinger were used for the deposition experiment. Results: The powder mean residence time in the secondary atomization zone of the devices was increased from 0ms for SD to 0.33, 0.96, 1.42, 1.76, and 2.14ms for MD1, MD2, MD3, MD4, and MD5, respectively. At a flow rate of 60L/min, with an increase in the powder residence time in these devices, a significant gradual and increasing trend in the powder respirable fraction was observed from 29.1%±1.1% (MD1) to 32.6%±2.2% (MD2), 37.1%±1.1% (MD3), and 43.7%±2.1% (MD4). There was no significant difference in the powder respirable fraction between SD and MD1 or between MD4 and MD5. Conclusions: Within a certain range, increasing the powder residence time could improve the performance of Aerolizer® by increasing the powder-air interaction time (the main reason) and increasing the powder-device compaction (the secondary reason). Combination of high turbulence level and sufficient powder residence time could further improve the device performance. © Copyright 2012, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2012.

doi:10.1007/978-1-4419-9745-6_11
Title:Excipients utilized for modifying pulmonary drug release
Authors:P. ShethP.B. Myrdal
Absract:Experimentally, there are a plethora of excipients used for pulmonaryadministered agents and formulations. However, far fewer have been tested in humans. The limited use of excipients is indicative of the difficulty of selecting an excipient that will not limit aerosolization performance, is safe with little-to-no immunogenicity, and is effective in sustaining drug release. These issues and topics are discussed in this chapter with a particular focus on modified release. © Controlled Release Society 2011.

doi:10.1007/s11095-010-0201-z
Title:Inhalable microparticles as carriers for pulmonary delivery of thymopentin-loaded solid lipid nanoparticles
Authors:Y.-Z. LiX. SunT. GongJ. LiuJ. ZuoZ.-R. Zhang
Absract:Purpose: Microparticles containing solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) are receiving increased attention as carriers for the lung delivery of the SLNs. Thus, we aim to prepare the hybrid microparticles and thoroughly evaluate their feasibility for the pulmonary drug delivery. Methods: The microparticles were prepared by co-spray-drying the thymopentin (TP5)-loaded SLNs with bulking agents. Thereafter, we systematically estimated the potential of the microparticles as the carriers for the pulmonary delivery of the SLNs, including the investigations of their characteristics, aerodynamic properties, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Results: The spherical and hollow microparticles presented a size of 4.1±0.1 μm and a low tap density of 0.175±0.02 g/cm@sup_begin3@sup_end. In addition, the microparticles showed a high aerosolization efficiency (emitted dose of 98.0%±1.23% and respirable fraction of 51.07%±1.21%). Furthermore, the SLNs could be easily recovered from the microparticles without essential changes on their characteristics and the drug release behavior. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies suggested that, compared to i.v. TP5 solution, the bioavailability and therapeutic efficacy of TP5 were remarkably strengthened after the pulmonary administration of the microparticles. Conclusions: Taken together, we believe the microparticles were suitable for inhalation and possesed an ample potential for the pulmonary delivery of the SLNs. © 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

pui:351344899
Title:Improving drug delivery in paediatric medicine
Authors:J. KrauseJ. Breitkreutz
Absract:A major challenge in drug development is paediatric drug delivery; however, the problems associated with drug administration in this population are manifold. Because of the highly heterogeneous nature of the patient group, ranging from newborns to adolescents, there is a need to use suitable excipients and dosage forms for different age groups and suitable delivery devices for certain formulations. So far, there is a lack of suitable and safe drug formulations for children, especially for the very young and seriously ill. This review provides an overview of current advances in the field of paediatric drug delivery and the challenges that still need to be overcome. With the new EU legislation, which will enforce paediatric clinical trials and drug development, there will be an increased need for more research in to novel paediatric dosage forms. There is also the basic need to further investigate the suitability of dosage forms for different age groups. Current advances in paediatric drug development include interesting new drug delivery concepts such as fast-dissolving drug formulations, including buccal films and wafers, and multiparticulate dosage forms. Parenteral administration is likely to remain the first choice for children in the neonatal period and for emergency cases. Alternative routes of administration also under investigation include transdermal, pulmonary and nasal drug delivery systems. A few products are already available on the market, but others are still under development and will need further investigation and clinical proof. © 2008 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1097/CAD.0b013e3282f28ffb
Title:Vitamin E analog, alpha-tocopherol ether-linked acetic acid analog, alone and in combination with celecoxib, reduces multiplicity of ultraviolet-induced skin cancers in mice
Authors:S.B. RiedelS.M. FischerB.G. SandersK. Kline
Absract:The goals of this study were to determine whether alpha-tocopherol ether-linked acetic acid analog (α-TEA), a novel vitamin E analog, and celecoxib, alone or in combination, when administered as a late intervention can reduce the ultraviolet-induced nonmelanoma skin-tumor burden of established tumors, prevent additional tumors from developing, and prevent tumor recurrence once treatments are stopped. Hairless SKH-1 female mice were ultraviolet-irradiated for 24 weeks, divided into treatment groups so that each group had approximately 5.8 tumors/mouse, and then treated with 72 μg of liposome-formulated α-TEA by aerosol inhalation, 500 p.p.m. celecoxib in AIN-76A diet, or a combination of α-TEA and celecoxib for 4 weeks. At the end of 4 weeks of treatment, each treatment group was subdivided, with one subgroup continuing to receive treatment and with treatment being stopped in the other. Skin-tumor development was monitored visually throughout the study and by histologic evaluation at the end. After 4 weeks of treatment, all treatments showed statistically significant reductions in tumor number when compared with controls. After termination of treatment, only α-TEA prevented a significant increase in tumor recurrence; however, continuous combination treatment resulted in the lowest total number of tumors. In conclusion α-TEA is an effective late-stage chemopreventive agent for nonmelanoma skin cancer that exhibits lasting benefits. © 2008 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Inc.

doi:10.1212/01.WNL.0000046589.45855.30
Title:Intranasal sumatriptan in cluster headache: Randomized placebo-controlled double-blind study
Authors:J.A. Van VlietA. BahraV. MartinN. RamadanS.K. AuroraN.T. MathewM.D. FerrariP.J. Goadsby
Absract:Background: Current evidence-based acute treatments of cluster headache are limited to oxygen inhalation and subcutaneous sumatriptan. Intranasal sumatriptan is a new formulation with better tolerability than the subcutaneous route. Two open-label studies suggested efficacy of intranasal sumatriptan in cluster headache. Methods: In a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized trial, patients with episodic or chronic cluster headache whose attacks lasted at least 45 minutes each treated one attack with 20 mg sumatriptan nasal spray and another one, at least 24 hours later, with matching placebo. They scored their headache on a five-point scale (very severe, severe, moderate, mild, or none) at 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 minutes. The primary outcome measure was headache response (a decrease in pain from very severe, severe, or moderate to mild or none) at 30 minutes. Secondary outcome measures included pain-free rates, relief of associated symptoms, and rates of adverse events. Multilevel multivariate analysis was used for statistical analysis. Results: Five study centers enrolled 118 patients in whom 154 attacks were treated: 77 with sumatriptan and 77 with placebo. The responder rates at 30 minutes were 57% for sumatriptan and 26% for placebo (p = 0.002). Pain-free rates at 30 minutes were 47% for sumatriptan and 18% for placebo (p = 0.003). Sumatriptan was also superior to placebo considering initial response, meaningful relief, and relief of associated symptoms. There were no serious adverse events. Conclusion: Sumatriptan nasal spray is effective and well tolerated in the acute treatment of cluster headache attacks of at least 45 minutes' duration.

doi:10.1023/A:1011902532163
Title:Aerosol delivery of lipid: DNA complexes to lungs of rhesus monkeys
Authors:R.J. McDonaldH.D. LiggittL. RocheH.T. NguyenR. PearlmanO.G. RaabeL.B. BusseyC.M. Gorman
Absract:Purpose. The potential use of aerosol delivery for non-viral gene therapy was tested by nebulization of lipid:DNA complexes to the lungs of rhesus monkeys. Methods. Four female rhesus monkeys were dosed with lipid:DNA formulations via aerosol inhalation, where the DNA coded for the human Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (hCFTR) protein. Delivery of DNA was determined in lung samples by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) by qualitative and quantitative methods. Transgene specific messenger RNA was measured by reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) and protein expression and localization were evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Results. Approximately four mg of DNA, complexed with cationic lipid 1,2-dimyristoyl- sn-glycero-3-ethylphosphatidylcholine (EDMPC) and cholesterol were delivered to the lungs of animals by air jet nebulizer. Three days after dosing, tissue samples from the lung were collected and shown to have vector specific DNA, RNA and the presence of CFTR protein. Specifically, the hCFTR protein was distributed widely, although non-uniformly, throughout airway epithelium being located on the apical surface of epithelial cells. Importantly, no adverse clinical effects were observed and the lungs showed no histological abnormalities or signs of acute inflammation. Conclusions. This study shows that lipid:DNA formulations based on EDMPC and cholesterol can be administered to primates by nebulization resulting in measurable expression of the hCFTR protein. The absence of inflammation is also encouraging and such systems may have utility for delivery of genes to the lungs for the treatment of a variety of pulmonary diseases including cystic fibrosis.

pui:27340204
Title:Efficiency of aerosolized nitric oxide donor drugs to achieve sustained pulmonary vasodilation
Authors:H. SchütteF. GrimmingerJ. OtterbeinR. SpriestersbachK. MayerD. WalmrathW. Seeger
Absract:Inhalation of nitric oxide (NO) causes selective pulmonary vasodilation, but demands continuous supply of the gaseous agent. We investigated the suitability of aerosolization of NO-donor drugs for achieving sustained reduction of pulmonary vascular tone. In buffer-perfused rabbit lungs, stable pulmonary hypertension was achieved by continuous infusion of the thromboxane-analogue U46619. The NO-donor drugs molsidomine, 3- morpholinosydnone-imine (SIN-1), sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and glyceryl- trinitrate reduced the pulmonary hypertension in a dose-dependent fashion, whether admixed to the perfusate or inhaled as alveolar-accessible aerosol particles (aerosolization time 3-6 min), with an efficiency ranking of SNP > SIN-1 >> molsidomine and glyceryl-trinitrate. Notably, nearly identical dose- response curves were obtained when corresponding molar quantities of the most potent agents, SNP and SIN-1, were applied either via transbronchial or via intravascular routes, with respect to rapidity of onset, extent (pressure reduction to near baseline) and duration (>90 min) of vasorelaxation. Appearance of sydnonimines in the perfusate after aerosolization and reduction of SIN-1 efficacy when nebulized in nonrecirculatingly perfused lungs demonstrated substantial entry of this prodrug into the vascular space after alveolar deposition. In contrast, undiminished vasodilatory efficacy of aerosolized SNP under conditions of non-recirculating perfusion suggested predominant efficacy via local NO release for this agent. We conclude that short aerosolization maneuvers of NO-donor drugs are suitable to achieve dose-dependent, extensive and sustained vasodilation in the pulmonary circulation, thus offering a new therapeutic approach in pulmonary hypertension.

doi:10.1080/13543784.2019.1561859
Title:Cannabis for cancer–illusion or the tip of an iceberg: a review of the evidence for the use of Cannabis and synthetic cannabinoids in oncology
Authors:I. TurgemanG. Bar-Sela
Absract:Introduction: A flowering plant of variegated ingredients and psychoactive qualities, Cannabis has long been used for medicinal and recreational purposes. Regulatory approvals have been gained across a broad range of palliative and therapeutic indications, and in some cases, included in standard treatment guidelines. Areas covered: The use of Cannabis and cannabinoid-based-medicines in oncology is summarized in this article. Cannabinoids are classified according to natural and synthetic subtypes and their mechanisms of action expounded. The variability of available products is discussed in the clinical context and data regarding chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, cancer-related pain, anorexia, insomnia, and anxiety are presented. Moreover, immunological and antineoplastic effects in preclinical and clinical trials are addressed. Concepts such as synergism or opposition with conventional treatment modalities, the sequence of administration and dosage, molecular cross-talk and malignancy-cannabinoid congruence, are explored. Finally, side-effects, limitations in trial design and legislation barriers are related. Expert opinion: Sufficient evidence supports the use of Cannabis for palliative indications in oncology; however, patients should be carefully selected, guided and followed. Promising research suggests the potent antineoplastic activity, but more data must be accrued before conclusions can be drawn.

doi:10.1208/s12249-016-0708-7
Title:Investigation into the Manufacture and Properties of Inhalable High-Dose Dry Powders Produced by Comilling API and Lactose with Magnesium Stearate
Authors:M. LauP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:The aim of the study was to understand the impact of different concentrations of the additive material, magnesium stearate (MGST), and the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), respectively, on the physicochemical properties and aerosol performance of comilled formulations for high-dose delivery. Initially, blends of API/lactose with different concentrations of MGST (1–7.5% w/w) were prepared and comilled by the jet-mill apparatus. The optimal concentration of MGST in comilled formulations was investigated, specifically for agglomerate structure and strength, particle size, uniformity of content, surface coverage, and aerosol performance. Secondly, comilled formulations with different API (1–40% w/w) concentrations were prepared and similarly analyzed. Comilled 5% MGST (w/w) formulation resulted in a significant improvement in in vitro aerosol performance due to the reduction in agglomerate size and strength compared to the formulation comilled without MGST. Higher concentrations of MGST (7.5% w/w) led to reduction in aerosol performance likely due to excessive surface coverage of the micronized particles by MGST, which led to failure in uniformity of content and an increase in agglomerate strength and size. Generally, comilled formulations with higher concentrations of API increased the agglomerate strength and size, which subsequently caused a reduction in aerosol performance. High-dose delivery was achieved at API concentration of >20% (w/w). The study provided a platform for the investigation of aerosol performance and physicochemical properties of other API and additive materials in comilled formulations for the emerging field of high-dose delivery by dry powder inhalation.

doi:10.1007/s11095-005-8926-9
Title:Inhaled insulin is better absorbed when administered as a dry powder compared to solution in the presence or absence of alkylglycosides
Authors:A. HussainQ.H. MajumderF. Ahsan
Absract:Purpose. This study was performed to investigate the safety of alkylglycosides administered via the respiratory route and to compare the pulmonary absorption profiles of insulin administered as dry powder inhaler and inhaler solution. Methods. The safety of a series of alkylglycosides with varying alkyl chain lengths was studied by measuring the enzymatic activities in the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid of rat lungs. Pulmonary formulations of insulin plus octylmaltoside were administered either as solution or lyophilized dry powder to anesthetized rats, and absorption of insulin was assessed by measuring plasma insulin and glucose levels. The physical characterization of the dry powder formulation was performed using scanning electron microscope (SEM) and Fourier transform infrared spectrophotometer (FTIR). Results. The BAL analysis showed that there was a gradual increase in the amount of lung injury markers released with the increase in the hydrophobic chain length of alkylglycosides. The pulmonary administration of lyophilized dry powder of insulin plus octylmaltoside or its solution counterpart showed that the bioavailability of powder formulation was about 2-fold higher than that of the formulation administered as solution. The SEM studies showed a subtle difference in the surface morphologies of formulation particles after lyophilization. FTIR data showed minor interactions between the peptide and excipients upon lyophilization. Conclusions. Of the alkylglycosides tested, octylmaltoside was least toxic in releasing lung injury markers. Octylmaltoside-based dry powder insulin formulations were more efficacious in enhancing pulmonary insulin absorption and reducing plasma glucose levels compared with the formulations administered as a solution. © 2006 Springer Science + Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1016/s1569-1993(02)00005-x
Title:Insights into cystic fibrosis microbiology from the European tobramycin trial in cystic fibrosis
Authors:J.R.W. Govan
Absract:The infection of the airways of cystic fibrosis patients by Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a complex, multistaged process that is associated with a deterioration of lung function. The complexity of the formation of biofilms and their interaction with the immune system means that treatment with antibiotics has been an uncertain science. Tobramycin nebuliser solution (TNS) is a novel formulation of the antibiotic tobramycin developed specifically for inhalation. A recent large trial comparing TNS with inhaled colistin provided an opportunity to define further the effect of antibiotic treatment on microbial infection. In the TNS group, the percentage of patients with a tobramycin minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) ≥4 mg l@sup_begin-1@sup_end increased from 38 to 49%, and the percentage of patients with a colistin MIC≥4 mg l@sup_begin-1@sup_end remained at 55%. In the colistin group, the percentage of patients with a colistin MIC≥4 mg l@sup_begin-1@sup_end remained at 34%, whereas the percentage of patients with a tobramycin MIC≥4 mg l@sup_begin-1@sup_end decreased from 27 to 16%. Furthermore, clinical and bacterial response to TNS and colistin was independent of the MIC at baseline. Neither antimicrobial therapy was associated with infection by Burkholderia cepacia or other inherently resistant pathogens. We conclude that conventional measures of antimicrobial resistance may underestimate the effectiveness of tobramycin and colistin when delivered at the high concentrations achieved with the TNS formulation. © 2002 European Cystic Fibrosis Society. Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1289/ehp.761775
Title:Toxicity of combustion products from burning polymers: development and evaluation of methods
Authors:P.L. WrightC.H. Adams
Absract:Laboratory and room-scale experiments were conducted with natural and synthetic polymers: cotton, paper, wood, wool, acetate, acrylic, nylon, and urethane. Smoke and off-gases from single materials were generated in a dual-compartment 110-liter exposure chamber. Multicomponent, composite fuel loads were burned within a 100 m@sup_begin3@sup_end facility subdivided into rooms. In chamber experiments, mortality depended on the amount of material burned, i.e., fuel consumption (FC). Conventional dose (FC)/mortality curves were obtained, and the amount of fuel required to produce 50% mortality (FC@sub_begin50@sub_end) was calculated. With simple flame ignition, cotton was the only material that produced smoke concentrations lethal to rats; FC@sub_begin50@sub_end values for cotton ranged from 2 g to 9 g, depending on the configuration of the cotton sample burned. When supplemental conductive heat was added to flame ignition, the following FC@sub_begin50@sub_end values were obtained: nylon, 7 g; acrylic, 8 g; newsprint, 9 g; cotton, 10 g; and wood, 11 g. Mortality resulting from any given material depended upon the specific conditions employed for its thermal decomposition. Toxicity of off-gasses from pyrolysis of phosphorus-containing trimethylol propanepolyurethane foams was markedly decreased by addition of a flame ignition source. Further studies are needed to determine the possible relevance of single-material laboratory scale smoke toxicity experiments. Room-scale burns were conducted to assess the relative contributions of single materials to toxicity of smoke produced by a multicomponent self-perpetuating fire. Preliminary results suggest that this approach permits a realistic evaluation of the contribution of single materials to the toxicity of smoke from residential fires.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2018.11.007
Title:The crucial role of leucine concentration on spray dried mannitol-leucine as a single carrier to enhance the aerosolization performance of Albuterol sulfate
Authors:C. MolinaW. KaialyA. Nokhodchi
Absract:Generally, DPI formulations show low fine particle fraction (FPF) due to poor detachment of drug particles from carrier during inhalation. @sub_beginL@sub_end-Leucine, with varying concentrations (ranging from 0 to 10% w/w), were introduced into a 60%w/v mannitol solution where the solutions were then spray dried to achieve a new processed carrier. The spray dried samples were blended with Albuterol sulfate to determine the efficacy of their aerosolization performance. Analyzing each formulation was completed via the implementation of numerous analytical techniques such as particle size distribution analysis via laser diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), scanning electron microscope (SEM), powder X-Ray diffraction (PXRD), Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, and an in vitro deposition study. It was shown the concentration of leucine in spray dried is really crucial to achieve the highest FPF possible. The highest FPF was obtained for the samples containing 10% w/w leucine which was 52.96 ± 5.21%. It was interesting to note that the presence of leucine produced different polymorphic forms for mannitol. Moreover, through this study, the authors were able to conclude that mannitol can serve as an alternative carrier in DPI formulations containing Albuterol sulfate tailored for lactose intolerant patients.

doi:10.4103/1735-5362.207203
Title:Development of dry powder inhaler containing tadalafil-loaded PLGA nanoparticles
Authors:J. VarshosazS. TaymouriH. HamishehkarR. VatankhahS. Yaghubi
Absract:Inhalable dry powders containing poly lactic-co-glycolic acid (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) were developed for the delivery of tadalafil (TAD) for treatment of life-treating pulmonary arterial hypertension. Taguchi design was employed to evaluate the effects of different formulation variables on the physicochemical characteristics of PLGA-NPs prepared using emulsion solvent evaporation method. Inhalable PLGA-NPs of TAD were successfully prepared by co-spray drying the PLGA-NPs with inert carriers. Physicochemical characteristics and in vitro deposition of the aerosolized drug were also evaluated. The optimized formulation was prepared using 7.5 mg of PLGA, 2.5 mg of TAD, sonication time of 6 min and 2% polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) as the stabilizer. The optimized aqueous/oil phase ratio for PLGA-NPs preparation was 10:1. Polymer/drug ratio was the most effective parameter on the release efficiency. Encapsulation efficiency, zeta potential and particle size of PLGA-NPs were more affected by aqueous/organic phase ratio. The spray dried powders containing PLGA-NPs had a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) in the range of 1.4-2.8 μm that was suitable for TAD delivery to the deep region of lung. The presence of L- leucine in mannitol containing formulations decreased the interparticulate forces between particles and increased significantly the process yield and fine particle fraction (FPF). The results indicated that prepared dry powders containing TAD-loaded PLGA-NPs were suitable for inhalation and has the potential for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2011.543896
Title:In vitro and in vivo testing methods for respiratory drug delivery
Authors:R.U. AguM.I. Ugwoke
Absract:Importance of the field: Successful respiratory drug delivery for local and systemic purposes is predicated on the availability of in vitro and in vivo methods for determining drug delivery and disposition following respiratory administration. Areas covered in this review: In this review, the relevance of new in vitro and in vivo methods for screening respiratory drug delivery is discussed. Specific topics covered include in vitro particle size characterization, in vitro dissolution test methods for respiratory formulations and in vitro respiratory absorption and disposition screening methods. Furthermore, in vivo respiratory dosing methods, in vivo respiratory aerosol deposition and drug absorption screening methods, and correlation between in vitro and in vivo methods are reviewed. What the reader will gain: After reading this article, the reader will have an enriched knowledge regarding the various in vitro and in vivo testing methods for respiratory drug delivery. Most importantly, this paper will make it possible for readers to appreciate the strengths and weaknesses of each test method, which in turn will assist them in selecting specific methods that suit their scientific needs. Take home message: New in vitro and in vivo methods for screening respiratory drug delivery are indispensible, especially from the respiratory drug development and quality control perspective. Each method has unique advantages and disadvantages that influence method selection and data interpretation. Although in vitro methods are used during drug development, they augment rather than substitute in vivo methods. © Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2009.06.013
Title:Lipid nanocapsules: Ready-to-use nanovectors for the aerosol delivery of paclitaxel
Authors:J. HureauxF. LagarceF. GagnadouxL. VecellioA. ClavreulE. RogerM. KempfJ.-L. RacineuxP. DiotJ.-P. BenoitT. Urban
Absract:Aerosol drug delivery permits the development of dose-intensification strategies in severe, malignant lung diseases. The aim of the study was to demonstrate that the encapsulation of paclitaxel in lipid nanocapsules (LNCs), a novel drug nanocarrier for lipophilic components, allows one to provide pulmonary drug delivery of paclitaxel by nebulisation, thereby allowing preclinical and clinical studies. LNC dispersions are made into aerosols with commercial nebulisers. The structure, drug payload and cytotoxicity of nebulised LNCs were compared to fresh LNCs. The results demonstrated that LNC dispersions could be made into aerosols by using mesh nebulisers without altering the LNC structure. Only eFlow@sup_begin®@sup_end rapid-produced aerosols are compatible with human use: the mean duration to nebulise 3 ml of LNC dispersion is less than 9 min, with an aerosol mass median aerodynamic diameter equal to 2.7 ± 0.1 μm and a fine-particle fraction (between 1.0 and 5.0 μm) of 81.5 ± 3.1%. No modifications of drug payload or cytotoxicity effects of paclitaxel-loaded LNC (PTX-LNC) were observed. In order to carry out preclinical studies, a scaled-up LNC formulation protocol was used. Chemical parameters, such as acidity and osmolarity, were optimised, and a storage procedure for PTX-LNC batches was set-up. Animal studies are now needed to determine the tolerance and therapeutic potential of LNC dispersion aerosols. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2008.0700
Title:Sustained mechanical and clinical functionality of the Flexhaler™ dry powder inhaler
Authors:T. LööfP. ElfmanP. StrömA. TörngrenL. Borgström
Absract:Flexhaler™ is a multiple-dose, inspiratory flow-driven dry powder inhaler that is a newer version of Turbuhaler®, and is identical to the Symbicort Turbuhaler®. Sustained performance is of the utmost importance to ensure consistent drug delivery throughout the lifespan of the inhaler. We report functionality testing results of Flexhaler™ inhalers used in two large-scale 12-week studies of budesonide (Pulmicort®) and returned for testing. Functionality tests included measurement of airflow resistance and inspection of vital parts for the mechanical functionality of the inhaler, including visual inspection of the indicator wheel and function check of dose loading. In addition, delivered dose, particle size distribution, moisture content, and microbial counts were evaluated. Seven hundred sixteen out of 720 units were returned. Airflow resistance was not affected by the handling of the Flexhaler™ inhalers during use (prior to use, average airflow resistance: 67 Pa@sup_begin0.5@sup_end*s*L@sup_begin-1@sup_end; returned inhalers: 66 and 67 Pa@sup_begin0.5@sup_end*s*L@sup_begin-1@sup_end in each study, respectively. The average dose delivered remained as intended after prolonged clinical use [95% (range 88 -103%) vs. reference of 99% (range 93-104%) before issue]. Relative fine particle dose ( <5 μm) after use was 107% (range 96-111%) of the reference value before issue. Moisture content in the inhaler desiccant was 3-25%, suggesting variability in storage conditions. Among the 28 inhalers randomly selected for microbiological testing there was no or very limited microbial growth. All 14 inhalers returned with functionality issues operated as intended and no reported functionality issues could be confirmed. Flexhaler™ inhalers operated as intended during these two clinical trials. These results should reassure both clinicians and patients with respect to the consistent quality of this unit for the delivery of dry powder formulations for inhalation. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2008.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2007.05.011
Title:Chitosan microspheres for intrapulmonary administration of moxifloxacin: Interaction with biomembrane models and in vitro permeation studies
Authors:C.A. VenturaS. TommasiniE. CrupiI. GiannoneV. CardileT. MusumeciG. Puglisi
Absract:Chitosan microspheres loaded moxifloxacin were prepared to obtain sustained release of the drug after intrapulmonary administration. The microspheres were produced by the spray-drying method using glutaraldehyde as the crosslinking agent. The particles were spherical with a smooth but distorted surface morphology and were of small size, ranging from 2.5 to 6.0 μm, thus suitable for inhalation. In vitro release studies showed a significant burst effect for all crosslinked systems, followed by a prolonged moxifloxacin release, particularly in the presence of the highest glutaraldehyde concentration. Lipid vesicles made of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) were used as an in vitro biomembrane model to evaluate the influence of chitosan microspheres on the interaction of moxifloxacin with biological membranes. Differential scanning calorimetry was used as a simple and non-invasive technique of analysis. Moxifloxacin freely permeates through DPPC liposomes, interacting with the hydrophobic zone of the bilayers (lowering of the ΔH value and loss of the cooperativity of the main transition peak). Uncrosslinked microspheres rapidly swelled and dissolved releasing free chitosan that was able to interact with liposomes (increase of ΔH value), probably altering the biomembrane permeability to the drug. Crosslinked microspheres did not show this property. Pulmonary absorption of moxifloxacin-loaded chitosan microspheres was evaluated compared to the free drug. A monolayer of Calu-3 human bronchial epithelial cells mounted on Franz diffusion cells was used as an in vitro bronchial epithelium model. Microspheres retard the absorption of moxifloxacin and within 6 h the cumulative amount of permeated drug was about 18%, 11% and 7% (w/w) for free moxifloxacin, moxifloxacin-loaded crosslinked and moxifloxacin-loaded uncrosslinked microspheres, respectively. © 2007.

doi:10.1007/s11095-006-9218-8
Title:Influence of humidity on the electrostatic charge and aerosol performance of dry powder inhaler carrier based systems
Authors:P.M. YoungA. SungD. TrainiP. KwokH. ChiouH.-K. Chan
Absract:To investigate the influence of storage relative humidity (RH) on the aerosolisation efficiency and tribo-electrification of carrier based dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations using the next generation impactor (NGI) in vitro methodology and the electrostatic low pressure impactor (ELPI). Micronised salbutamol (d @sub_begin0.5@sub_end 1.48 ± 0.03 μm) was blended with 63-90 μm sieve fractioned α-lactose monohydrate carrier and stored at a range of humidities (0-84% RH). The aerosolisation efficiency after storage for 24 h periods was investigated using the NGI. The same experiment was conducted using the ELPI, with corona charger switched off, to measure the net charge vs. mass deposition profile. Significant variations in the aerosolisation efficiency of the formulation were observed with respect to storage RH. In general, the fine particle fraction aerosol performance measured by NGI and ELPI (fraction with mass median aerodynamic diameter <4.46 and 4.04 μm, respectively) followed a positive parabola with aerosol performance increasing over the range 0-60% RH before decreasing >60% RH. Analysis of the ELPI charge data suggested that the micronised salbutamol sulphate had an electronegative charge when aerosolised from lactose based carriers, which was most electronegative at low RH. Increased storage RH resulted in a reduction in net charge to mass ratio with the greatest reduction at RH >60%. The aerosol performance of this binary system is dependent on both electrostatic and capillary forces. The use of the ELPI allows a degree of insight into how these forces affect formulation performances after storage at different RH. © 2007 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1016/j.bios.2005.10.025
Title:Epinephrine quantification in pharmaceutical formulations utilizing plant tissue biosensors
Authors:F.S. FelixM. YamashitaL. Angnes
Absract:A plant tissue biosensor associated with flow injection analysis is proposed to determine epinephrine in pharmaceutical samples. The polyphenol oxidase enzymes present in the fibers of a palm tree fruits (Livistona chinensis), catalyses the oxidation of epinephrine to epinephrinequinone as a primary product. This product is then electrochemically reduced (at -0.10 V versus Ag/AgCl@sub_beginsat@sub_end) on the biosensor surface and the resulting current is used for the quantification of epinephrine. The biosensor provides a linear response for epinephrine in the concentration range from 5.0 × 10@sup_begin-5@sup_end to 3.5 × 10@sup_begin-4@sup_end mol l@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The limit of detection estimated for this interval was 1.5 × 10@sup_begin-5@sup_end mol l@sup_begin-1@sup_end and the correlation coefficient of 0.998, working under a flow rate of 2.0 ml min@sup_begin-1@sup_end and using a sample loop of 100 μl. The repeatability (R.S.D. for 10 consecutive determinations of a 3.0 × 10@sup_begin-4@sup_end mol l@sup_begin-1@sup_end epinephrine solution) was 3.1%. The results obtained by the method here proposed were compared with the official UV spectrophotometric procedure and also using a plant tissue reactor. The responses obtained with the proposed strategies were in good agreement with both ways of analyses, whereas the values obtained by the official spectrophotometric method was strongly affected by benzoic acid, present in the formulation of pharmaceutical product utilized for inhalation. Such favorable results obtained with the carbon paste biosensor or utilizing the bioreactor, joined with the simplicity of its preparation turns these procedures very attractive for epinephrine quantification in pharmaceutical products. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s13346-020-00707-6
Title:Co-spraying of carriers (mannitol-lactose) as a method to improve aerosolization performance of salbutamol sulfate dry powder inhaler
Authors:M.S. FerdynandA. Nokhodchi
Absract:Although in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations a single carrier is used, a single carrier is not able to provide an excellent aerosolization performance when it is used in DPI formulations. Thereby, the aim of this study was to engineer a suitable ternary mixture of mannitol-lactose-leucine to be used in a DPI formulation with enhanced aerosolization performance. To this end, binary mixtures of mannitol:lactose containing a constant amount of leucine (5% w/w of carriers) were spray-dried as a single solution. Spray-dried samples were blended with salbutamol sulfate to determine the efficiency of their aerosolization performance. Interestingly, note that lactose was in its amorphous state stabilized by the presence of mannitol in the samples. Spray-dried mannitol without lactose showed a combination of the α- and β-polymorphic forms which was the case in all other ratios of mannitol:lactose. It was shown that the highest fine particle fraction (FPF) was 62.42 ± 4.21% which was obtained for the distinct binary mixtures (1:3 mannitol:lactose) compared to a single carrier. This study opens a new window to investigate further the implementation of binary mixtures of sugar carriers containing leucine in DPI formulations to overcome poor aerosolization performance the mentioned DPI formulations.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.05.028
Title:Formulating powder-device combinations for salmeterol xinafoate dry powder inhalers
Authors:M. HassounS. HoJ. MuddleF. ButtiniM. ParryM. HammondB. Forbes
Absract:Using salmeterol xinafoate (SX) as an active pharmaceutical ingredient, the effects of carrier lactose particle type, total lactose fines content and device resistance on dry powder inhaler performance were investigated in vitro. To mimic drug levels in commercial preparations, interactive mixtures containing 0.58% w/w SX were prepared by low shear tumble mixing. Three types of milled inhalation grade lactose were used (Lactohale@sup_begin®@sup_end LH 200, Respitose@sup_begin®@sup_end ML006 and ML001) and the concentration of fine lactose (Lactohale@sup_begin®@sup_end 300) added was varied. The in vitro deposition of each mixture was studied using a next generation impactor and inhaler devices exhibiting different resistances, Rotahaler@sup_begin®@sup_end < Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end < Handihaler@sup_begin®@sup_end. Aerosol performance was evaluated based on the emitted dose (ED), mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) ± geometric standard deviation (GSD) and fine particle fraction (FPF). Increases of up to eight-fold in FPF were observed with increasing intrinsic fine lactose content. The addition of extra fine lactose increased the FPF further, although the effect diminished as more fines were added. The Aerolizer produced the best aerosol performance with any given powder blend, although suitable formulations were identified for each device as defined by the a priori success criteria: <80% ED and MMAD ± GSD between 1-5 μm. The results confirmed the factors under investigation to be important determinants of product performance, but demonstrated using realistic conditions how individual factor impact may be enhanced or mitigated by inter-dependency.

doi:10.1007/s40263-013-0061-2
Title:Dihydroergotamine: A review of formulation approaches for the acute treatment of migraine
Authors:S.D. SilbersteinS.H. Kori
Absract:Dihydroergotamine (DHE) was first used to treat migraine in 1945 and is currently included among migraine-specific treatments for moderate-severe migraine. DHE may be administered through several routes of delivery, with efficacy and tolerability varying among formulations. We review DHE formulation approaches for the acute treatment of migraine, reviewing pharmacokinetics/ dynamics and comparing clinical response among various formulations. Pharmacokinetic properties vary among DHE formulations, with peak concentration occurring in 6 min with intravenous, 34 min with intramuscular, 56 min with intranasal, 12 min with oral inhalation and 75 min with oral administration. DHE is a potent agonist at serotonin 5-HT@sub_begin1B@sub_end and 5-HT@sub_begin1D@sub_end receptors. Adverse effects due to binding to select adrenergic and dopaminergic receptors are significantly less with orally inhaled than intravenous DHE when comparing therapeutically effective doses. Among parenteral formulations (including subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous and nasal spray), efficacy is superior with injectable dosing. Nasal spray DHE is generally more effective than placebo, but less effective than sumatriptan. Orally inhaled DHE is likewise more effective than placebo, but there are no head-to-head comparisons with triptans available for review. Adverse effects, particularly nausea, may limit use of parenteral DHE. Nausea is generally less frequent with non-injectable dosing. © 2013 Springer International Publishing Switzerland.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2007.02.008
Title:Chitosan nanoparticles are compatible with respiratory epithelial cells in vitro
Authors:A. GrenhaC.I. GraingerL.A. DaileyB. SeijoG.P. MartinC. Remuñán-LópezB. Forbes
Absract:The aim of this work was to evaluate the biocompatibility of novel respirable powder formulations of nanoparticles (NP) entrapped in mannitol microspheres using human respiratory epithelial cell lines. Microspheres formulated at NP:mannitol ratios of 10:90, 20:80 and 40:60 were evaluated using the Calu-3 and A549 cell lines. The MTT cell viability assay revealed an absence of overt toxicity to Calu-3 or A549 cells following exposure to the formulations containing <1.3 mg NP/ml (equivalent to 0.87 mg NP/cm@sup_begin2@sup_end) for up to 48 h. Transepithelial electrical resistance (TER) and solute permeability in Calu-3 cell layers were determined following exposure of the cells to the NP:mannitol 20:80 formulation. After administration of the formulation dissolved in serum-free cell culture medium (1.3 mg/ml NP suspension) to the cells, neither TER nor permeability were altered compared to untreated cell layers. Confocal microscopy did not reveal any NP internalisation under the conditions used in this study, although evidence of mucoadhesion was observed. All the data presented are encouraging with respect to the development of chitosan NP-containing microspheres for the pulmonary administration of therapeutic macromolecules. Not only do the formulations possess suitable aerodynamic characteristics and the capacity to encapsulate proteins as shown previously; they have now been shown to exhibit in vitro biocompatibility. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1378/chest.111.2.316
Title:Pulmonary delivery of beclomethasone liposome aerosol in volunteers: Tolerance and safety
Authors:J.C. WaldrepB.E. GilbertC.M. KnightM.B. BlackP.W. SchererV. KnightW. Eschenbacher
Absract:Study objective: To test the tolerance and safety of single doses of beclomethasone dipropionate (Bec)-dilauroylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC) liposome aerosol in volunteers. Design: Single-dose inhalations of liposome preparations of Bec-DLPC and DLPC alone were administered for 15 min from a jet nebulizer (Puritan-Bennett, modified twin jet; mass median aerodynamic diameter of 1.6 μm) under close clinical and laboratory surveillance. Two dose levels (0.5 mg Bec/12.5 mg DLPC per milliliter, and 1.0 mg Bec and 25 mg DLPC per milliliter in the reservoirs, respectively) were administered. The Bec doses were selected to approximate the dosages of this glucocorticoid used with metered-dose inhalers (MDIs). First, four volunteers were exposed to an initial low dose; the mean (±SD) inhaled doses were 0.56±0.07 mg of Bec and/or 14.0±1.8 mg of DLPC. Subsequently, a second group of six volunteers was exposed to a higher dose; the mean (±SD) inhaled doses were 1.29±0.14 mg of Bec and/or 34.6±6.8 mg of DLPC. Setting: Outpatient and inpatient. Patients: Normal male (n=6) and female (n=4) adult volunteers. Interventions: Inhalation of Bec-DLPC and DLPC liposome aerosols in a single-dose tolerance study involving 10 normal volunteers. Measurements and results: Spirometry, clinical observations, clinical chemistry, and hematology were monitored. No adverse clinical or laboratory events were observed. Conclusions: Bec-DLPC liposome aqueous aerosol was well tolerated in doses equivalent to those currently administered by MDIs and dry powder inhalers for treatment of asthma.

doi:10.1016/j.cllc.2015.09.005
Title:Toxicity and Pharmacokinetic Studies of Aerosolized Clinical Grade Azacitidine
Authors:X. QiuY. LiangR.S. SellersR. Perez-SolerY. Zou
Absract:Background Azacitidine as an effective epigenetic therapeutic agent has not been used as an aerosol form to treat lung cancer patients. We aerosolized clinical grade azacitidine (Aza), optimized the formulation, and studied its pharmacokinetics and toxicity in mice. Methods Extrusion-precipitation method and DNA methyltransferase inhibition rate were used to measure the aerodynamic size and aerosolized Aza activity. In the single dose pharmacokinetic study, Aza concentrations in peripheral blood and lungs were measured by LC-MS method. In the multiple-dose toxicity studies, histo-pathological evaluation was used to determine the organ and bone marrow toxicities. Results In pharmacokinetic study, aerosolized Aza was found to deposit mainly into the lung with very little drug detected in the circulation. In contrast, intravenously injected (IV) Aza resulted in a high Aza concentration in the peripheral blood, with trace amounts of drug in the lung, and it was associated with significant myelosuppression. No significant myelosuppression, pulmonary toxicity, hepatotoxicity, or nephrotoxicity were observed at a daily dose of 2.5 mg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end for 7 days. Reversible lung inflammation was found in mice treated with 7.5 mg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end aerosolized Aza at 3 but not 6 weeks after treatment. Conclusions Aerosol Aza aerodynamic size favors deposition of the drug to the human lower airways. The aerosol process do not compromise the drug activity. Aerosolized Aza has higher lung deposition and much less systemic toxicity than IV drug. The safe starting dose for clinical phase I trials should be 2.5 mg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end for 5 to 7 days.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.02.002
Title:Stability and aerosolization of pressurized metered dose inhalers containing thymopentin nanoparticles produced using a bottom-up process
Authors:Y. TanZ. YangX. PanM. ChenM. FengL. WangH. LiuZ. ShanC. Wu
Absract:The objective of this study was to investigate the stability and aerosolization of pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) containing thymopentin nanoparticles. Thymopentin nanoparticles, fabricated by a bottom-up process, were suspended in hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) 134a together with cineole and/or n-heptane to produce pMDI formulations. The stability study of the pMDIs obtained was carried out at ambient temperature for 6 months. The amount of thymopentin and the aerosolization properties of pMDIs were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and a twin-stage impinger (TSI), respectively. Based on the results, thymopentin nanoparticles were readily suspended in HFA 134a with the aid of cineole and/or n-heptane to form physically stable pMDI formulations, and more than 98% of the labeled amount of thymopentin and over 50% of the fine particle fraction (FPF) of the pMDIs were achieved. During storage, it was found that for all pMDIs more than 97% of the labeled amount of thymopentin and FPF greater than 47% were achieved. Moreover, the size of thymopentin nanoparticles in propellant containing cineole and n-heptane showed little change. It is, therefore, concluded that the pMDIs comprising thymopentin nanoparticles developed in this study were stable and suitable for inhalation therapy for systemic action. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/14656560903078428
Title:Mometasone furoate: An inhaled glucocorticoid for the management of asthma in adults and children
Authors:R.L. CowieM.A. GiembyczR. Leigh
Absract:Mometasone furoate has been available for clinical use, starting with a dermatologic preparation, for nearly 20 years. An inhaled format of the drug for management of asthma had been in development during the last decade and has been available for clinical use for 6 years as a dry powder inhaler delivering either 100 mcg or 200 mcg per dose. It has a long half-life and is suitable for daily dosing. The drug is approved for use in the USA for the treatment of asthma in patients aged 4 years or over. Mometasone furoate is a topically potent glucocorticoid with a favorable risk-benefit profile. A wide variety of randomized clinical trials have shown the drug to have a clinically beneficial effect on asthma comparable to fluticasone propionate, and to permit the reduction or withdrawal of oral glucocorticoid therapy in patients with asthma. Mometasone furoate has approximately 1% oral bioavailability but does produce systemic glucocorticoid effects from the drug released from the lung and its metabolites. These effects are minimal when mometasone is used appropriately at low or moderate doses. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab01.abstracts
Title:Dry powder inhalation of glucagon-like peptide-1 for management of type-2 diabetes mellitus
Authors:S. PandyaD. KumarS. GuptaK. MitraA.N. GaikwadA. Misra
Absract:Background: Glucagon-like peptide 1 (7-36) amide (GLP-1) is a bioactive peptide that regulates glucose homeostasis through multiple actions. The present study aims to develop a particulate delivery system for administration of the prototype incretin GLP-1 fragment for the management of Type 2 diabetes mellitus. Methods: Particles incorporating 5% and 10% GLP-1 were engineered using spray freeze drying (SFD) employing L-leucine and trehalose as cryoprotectants. The particles were extensively characterized for physicochemical properties such as mean particle size, surface morphology, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), specific surface area (SSBET) and porosity. Circular Dichroism (CD) spectroscopy was done to assess the structure integrity of peptide. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies with GLP-1 particles were performed on C57/BL6 mice. Results: Particles prepared by SFD in high yield (>90%) exhibited good aerodynamic performance (MMAD1/41.1 - 0.35 lm, FPF1/460.5 -0.5%). Particles were porous and possessed high SSBET of 195m2/g and low density (0.03 g/ml). In-vitro MTT assay on A549 cell-line showed that the particles did not exert any significant lung toxicity. CD analysis indicated that the secondary structure of GLP-1 fragment in particulate formulation was intact. Maximum circulating GLP-1 levels in mice were achieved in 20-30min. Intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test revealed that a dose dependent response in terms of plasma glucose concentration was achieved following pulmonary administration of GLP-1 particles. Particles with 10% GLP-1 provided good control over glucose homeostasis. Conclusion: A suitable inhalable formulation of GLP-1 was developed for its feasible use in management of type 2 diabetes mellitus.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.05.001
Title:Lipid-based carriers for pulmonary products: Preclinical development and case studies in humans
Authors:D. CipollaB. ShekunovJ. BlanchardA. Hickey
Absract:A number of lipid-based technologies have been applied to pharmaceuticals to modify their drug release characteristics, and additionally, to improve the drug loading for poorly soluble drugs. These technologies, including solid-state lipid microparticles, many of which are porous in nature, liposomes, solid lipid nanoparticles and nanostructured lipid carriers, are increasingly being developed for inhalation applications. This article provides a review of the rationale for the use of these technologies in the pulmonary delivery of drugs, and summarizes the manufacturing processes and their limitations, the in vitro and in vivo performance of these systems, the safety of these lipid-based systems in the lung, and their promise for commercialization.

doi:10.1016/j.pharmthera.2014.05.003
Title:Across the pulmonary epithelial barrier: Integration of physicochemical properties and human cell models to study pulmonary drug formulations
Authors:M. HaghiH.X. OngD. TrainiP. Young
Absract:During the process of inhalable formulation development a deep knowledge of the physicochemical characteristics of the drug and formulation components and the biological properties of the airways is necessary. For example, the solubility and lipophilicity of a drug may affect therapeutic efficacy by changing the residence time of the microparticles at the airway surface. Furthermore, the properties of microparticles, such as shape, size and density, as well as the diseases of the respiratory tract, delivery device and inhalation manoeuvre will have an impact on where these microparticles are deposited. The airway epithelium is involved in the pathogenesis and treatment of respiratory diseases. Epithelial cells are directly exposed to the environment and respond to xenobiotics. In some cases, they are the site of action for drug molecules or the drug molecules might need to be transported across the epithelium to arrive at the site of action. The drug particles deposited on the respiratory epithelia have to interact with the mucus lining, dissolve and get transported through this layer. Despite advances in in vitro testing of respiratory epithelial permeability, there is little known about how and where drugs are absorbed at a cellular level and how long they reside in the lung. Therefore, pulmonary permeability assessment of drugs may provide insights that will allow formulations to be developed with optimised therapeutic outcomes. This review focuses on the integration of these physicochemical characteristics with the biological factors to provide a better understanding of the fate of microparticles after deposition on the epithelial cells.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2009.05.002
Title:Optimisation of spray-drying process variables for dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations of corticosteroid/cyclodextrin inclusion complexes
Authors:H. Cabral-MarquesR. Almeida
Absract:This study aims to develop and characterise a beclomethasone diproprionate:γ-cyclodextrin (BDP:γ-CYD) complex and to optimise the variables on the spray-drying process, in order to obtain a powder with the most suitable characteristics for lung delivery. The spray-dried powder - in a mass ratio of 2:5 (BDP:γ-CYD) - was physically mixed with three carriers of different particle sizes and in different ratios. Particle-size distribution, shape and morphology, moisture content, and uniformity in BDP content of formulations were studied. In vitro aerolisation behaviour of the formulations was evaluated using the Rotahaler, and the performance was characterised based on the uniformity of emitted dose and aerodynamic particle-size distribution (respirable fraction (RF), as a percentage of nominal dose (RFN) and emitted dose (RFE)). The most suitable conditions for the preparation of BDP:γ-CYD complexes were obtained with the solution flow of 5 ml/min, T@sub_beginin@sub_end of 70 °C and T@sub_beginout@sub_end of 50 °C. Statistically significant differences in the aerodynamic performances were obtained for formulations containing BDP:γ-CYD complexes prepared using different solution flows and different T@sub_beginin@sub_end (p < 0.05). RFN and RFE vary in direct proportion with T@sub_beginin@sub_end, while an inverse relationship was observed for the solution flow. A direct correlation between the RFE and the T@sub_beginout@sub_end was identified. Performance of the formulations was compared with an established commercial product (Beclotaide Rotacaps 100 μg) with improved performance of RF: formulations with respitose carrier attained RFN and RFE twofold greater, and formulations based on 63-90 μm fraction lactose and trehalose achieved a threefold improvement; also, all formulations showed that the percentage of dose of BDP deposited in the "oropharynx" compartment was reduced to half. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1513/pats.200904-023AW
Title:@sup_begin18@sup_endF-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic imaging of pulmonary functions, pathology, and drug delivery
Authors:M.B. Dolovich
Absract:@sup_begin18@sup_endF-FDG positron emission tomographic (PET) scanning is a major imaging tool widely used to investigate lung function and lung disease. Tomographic imaging of drug delivered to the lung via the aerosol route can provide data that link the regional distribution and pharmacokinetics of a specific drug to clinical efficacy. Correlation with routine clinical functional measurements is possible, but, whereas 3D imaging data provides local drug deposition information, clinical tests of respiratory status are "black-box" measurements with outcomes specific to large or small airways inferred from the results. However, biopsies may be obtained directly from the tissue being imaged and therefore allow correlations with tracer uptake in the particular tissues. Imaging a radiolabeled pharmaceutic over time provides temporal information of receptor binding, drug absorption, or drug clearance from airways or the alveolar space. Changes in the deposition of inhaled aerosols within the lung related to the presence of disease or resulting from inhalation challenge interventions or inhaled therapies can be visualized with PET and may correlate with clinical outcomes. As well, the amount of an inhaled tracer deposited in various regions of the lung can give an indication of the efficiency of drug delivery and, combined with the regional distribution of the drug within the lung and the rate of drug absorption, estimate clinical efficacy and safety.

doi:10.1002/cpdd.724
Title:A semiphysiological approach for evaluating the sensitivity of pharmacokinetics to detect differences in regional lung deposition of orally-inhaled drug products
Authors:A. KurumaddaliE. AminiS.K. DrescherM. ChenJ. BulittaG. Hochhaus
Absract:Statement of Purpose, Innovation or Hypothesis: Unlike oral drugs, the bioequivalence (BE) assessment of orally-inhaled drug products (OIDPs) is challenging, as drug plasma concentrations are downstream to the sites of action in the lung. Currently, the US Food &Drug Administration recommends the aggregate weight of evidence approach, which involves the in vitro, pharmacokinetic (PK) and comparative clinical endpoint or pharmacodynamic (PD) BE assessment of OIDPs, in addition to formulation sameness and device similarity. It is believed that for explaining the comparative pulmonary efficacy of OIDPs, three questions need to be addressed: (1) Is the available pulmonary dose equivalent? (2) Is the mean pulmonary residence time equivalent? (3) Is the regional lung deposition equivalent? Most subject matter experts agree that PK can capture the former two aspects in the absence of oral absorption. Given the pulmonary anatomy and physiology, we hypothesized that PK should be able to differentiate between formulations that deposit preferentially in the central region of the lung (slow absorption across well-built membranes) from formulations that deposit more peripherally (faster absorption because of thinner membranes). To test our hypothesis, a semiphysiological PK model was developed (integrating the in vitro/physicochemical properties and physiological lung parameters) for fluticasone propionate (FP) dry powder inhalation (DPI) formulations, a slowly-dissolving candidate drug with negligible oral bioavailability. Description of Methods and Materials: Previously, three FP DPI formulations that differed in mass median aerodynamic diameter (A-4.5 μm, B-3.8 μm and C-3.7 μm) and in in vitro dissolution rate (from TranswellR cell experiments), were assessed in a randomized, double-blind, four-way crossover PK study (formulation C-3.7 μm was repeated) in 24 healthy subjects. Two absorption processes (a slow process presumably from central lung and a fast process presumably from peripheral lung) were previously identified through population PK (PopPK) analysis of the clinical data. In this study, a semiphysiological model was developed to test whether the biphasic PK profiles observed in the clinical study can be explained and linked to relevant physiological attributes (dissolution and regional deposition characteristics). Briefly, the absorption processes were modeled using Nernst-Brunner equation (for dissolution) and Fick's law (for permeation) considering the physiology of the lung (e.g., surface area, permeability estimates) and compared with the PopPK suggested biphasic absorption profile. The resulting semiphysiological model was subsequently used to evaluate whether peak plasma concentration (Cmax) differences of the formulations in the PK study are linked to regional deposition differences. Data and Results: The predicted profiles generated with the semiphysiological model have shown excellent agreement with the observed PK data, indicating that the biphasic absorption behavior may be linked to absorption from central and peripheral lung regions. The much lower Cmax of dose-normalized formulation A-4.5 μm (compared to formulation C-3.7 μm) was due to a slower dissolution rate and a higher central lung deposition, which explained 41% and 59% of the observed difference in Cmax, respectively, indicating that the Cmax is sensitive to differences in regional lung deposition of the formulations. Interpretation, Conclusion or Significance: This work underlines that PK may be able to provide important supportive information for pulmonary bioequivalence assessment without the conduct of comparative clinical endpoint or PD studies.

doi:10.1517/13543776.18.4.429
Title:Dry powder inhalation systems for pulmonary delivery of therapeutic peptides and proteins
Authors:S. OnoueN. HashimotoS. Yamada
Absract:Background: Dry powder inhaler (DPI) systems are widely accepted as an alternative to injection and oral administration of therapeutic peptides and proteins. In contrast to oral therapy, pulmonary administration eliminates the potential for poor absorption and high metabolism in the gastrointestinal tract and it also evades first-pass effects in the liver. Inhalation therapy does not cause pain, unlike injection therapy, and this reduces the strain on the patient, possibly leading to improved treatment outcomes. Objective: Alongside the expansion of the DPI market, the science and engineering of dry powder formulations and devices have also grown. In this review, we present information regarding some recent advances in this expanding field, with emphasis on pulmonary delivery of therapeutic peptides and proteins. Methods: The scope of this review was defined by patent information on DPI devices, formulations and pulmonary delivery of therapeutic peptides and proteins for topical and systemic administration. Patent and bibliographic searches were carried out using various databases and websites, including CAplus, United States Patent and Trademark Office patent full-text and image database, Industrial Property Digital Library, Espγenet, World Intellectual Property Organization patentscope, Freepatentsonline, and PubMed database. Results/conclusion: A number of research efforts have demonstrated the feasibility of pulmonary delivery systems for therapeutic peptides and proteins, employing novel inhaler devices, powder engineering technologies, functional drug carriers and absorption enhancers. Optimized drug delivery would be achieved not only by improving relatively simple inhaler devices but also by more sophisticated formulations that disperse easily in the air stream. © 2008 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2013.06.002
Title:Real life clinical study design supporting the effectiveness of extra-fine inhaled beclomethasone/formoterol at the level of small airways ofasthmatics
Authors:T.A. PopovD. PetrovaT.Z. KralimarkovaY. IvanovT. PopovaM. PenevaT. OdzhakovaY. IlievaP. YakovlievT. LazarovaO. GeorgievV. HodzhevE. HodzhevaM.T. StaevskaV.D. Dimitrov
Absract:Background: In an attempt to establish how treatment with inhaled extra-fine beclomethasone/formoterol (I-EF-BDP/F) formulation differs from other combinations of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long acting beta-agonist (LABA), we studied lung function and markers of airway inflammation upon switching to the extra-fine formulation and after 8 weeks of treatment with it. Methods: We carried out a real-life clinical observation of undercontrolled asthmatic patients switched over from dry powder inhalers of fluticasone/salmeterol and budesonide/formoterol to I-EF-BDP/F (Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end, Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A., Italy). The effects of 8-weeks of treatment were documented by means of visual analogscale (VAS), quality of life by Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ), spirometry and markers of airway or systemic inflammation: exhaled breath temperature (EBT), blood eosinophils (Eos), and high sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP). Before/after treatment differences between forced vital capacity percent of predicted (%FVC), a simple indicator of small airways involvement, were calculated and subjects were ranked accordingly to reflect the magnitude of the therapeutic response. Subjects above the 75th percentile (n=15), "top responders", were then compared with those below the 25th percentile (n=15) "poor responders". Results: On average, the 59 patients completing the study (mean age± SD 51±12 years, 38 women) had significant improvement in VAS and QLQ scores at the end of the treatment period (49.1±2.4 vs. 73.1±2.05 and 146.1±2.7 vs. 176.7.1±3.4 respectively, P<0.001), but not in the inflammatory indicators (EBT, CRP and Eos). However, when comparing the "top responders" with the "poor responders", significant improvement in these inflammatory indicators was observed: EBT significantly decreased from 34.04/mean/± 0.30/s.e.m./[°C] to 33.57±0.33, P=0.003, Eos in blood fell from 381.7±91.2 [cells/μL] to 244.2±43.2, P=0.02. Before/after treatment differences in hsCRP decreased significantly in the top responders compared with the poor responders (Mann-Whitney test, P=0.04). Conclusion: Asthmatic subjects who had the most improvement in FVC after transition to I-EF-BDP/F from other combined ICS/LABA preparations also demonstrated a significant decrease in some indicators of airway/systemic inflammation. These results support the notion that I-EF-BDP/F exerts an effect also at the level of the small airways through a reduction of the level of air trapping. Patients in whom inflammation of the small airways plays an important clinical role are the ones to derive most benefit from this small airways tailored treatment. However, improved compliance due to the "promise of a new drug" effect should also be considered as contributing to the treatment results. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.

doi:10.1007/s15010-018-1152-2
Title:Neuroinfections caused by fungi
Authors:K. GóralskaJ. BlaszkowskaM. Dzikowiec
Absract:Background: Fungal infections of the central nervous system (FIs-CNS) have become significantly more common over the past 2 decades. Invasion of the CNS largely depends on the immune status of the host and the virulence of the fungal strain. Infections with fungi cause a significant morbidity in immunocompromised hosts, and the involvement of the CNS may lead to fatal consequences. Methods: One hundred and thirty-five articles on fungal neuroinfection in PubMed, Google Scholar, and Cochrane databases were selected for review using the following search words: “fungi and CNS mycoses”, CNS fungal infections”, “fungal brain infections”, " fungal cerebritis”, fungal meningitis”, “diagnostics of fungal infections”, and “treatment of CNS fungal infections”. All were published in English with the majority in the period 2000–2018. This review focuses on the current knowledge of the epidemiology, clinical presentations, diagnosis, and treatment of selected FIs-CNS. Results: The FIs-CNS can have various clinical presentations, mainly meningitis, encephalitis, hydrocephalus, cerebral abscesses, and stroke syndromes. The etiologic factors of neuroinfections are yeasts (Cryptococcus neoformans, Candida spp., Trichosporon spp.), moniliaceous moulds (Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp.), Mucoromycetes (Mucor spp., Rhizopus spp.), dimorphic fungi (Blastomyces dermatitidis, Coccidioides spp., Histoplasma capsulatum), and dematiaceous fungi (Cladophialophora bantiana, Exophiala dermatitidis). Their common route of transmission is inhalation or inoculation from trauma or surgery, with subsequent hematogenous or contiguous spread. As the manifestations of FIs-CNS are often non-specific, their diagnosis is very difficult. A fast identification of the etiological factor of neuroinfection and the application of appropriate therapy are crucial in preventing an often fatal outcome. The choice of effective drug depends on its extent of CNS penetration and spectrum of activity. Pharmaceutical formulations of amphotericin B (AmB) (among others, deoxycholate-AmBd and liposomal L-AmB) have relatively limited distribution in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); however, their detectable therapeutic concentrations in the CNS makes them recommended drugs for the treatment of cryptococcal meningoencephalitis (AmBd with flucytosine) and CNS candidiasis (L-AmB) and mucormycosis (L-AmB). Voriconazole, a moderately lipophilic molecule with good CNS penetration, is recommended in the first-line therapy of CNS aspergillosis. Other triazoles, such as posaconazole and itraconazole, with negligible concentrations in the CSF are not considered effective drugs for therapy of CNS fungal neuroinfections. In contrast, clinical data have shown that a novel triazole, isavuconazole, achieved considerable efficacy for the treatment of some fungal neuroinfections. Echinocandins with relatively low or undetectable concentrations in the CSF do not play meaningful role in the treatment of FIs-CNS. Conclusion: Although the number of fungal species causing CNS mycosis is increasing, only some possess well-defined treatment standards (e.g., cryptococcal meningitis and CNS aspergillosis). The early diagnosis of fungal infection, accompanied by identification of the etiological factor, is needed to allow the selection of effective therapy in patients with FIs-CNS and limit their high mortality.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2021.102002
Title:An overview of the biology of a long-acting inhaled treprostinil prodrug
Authors:R.W. ChapmanM.R. CorbozV.S. MalininA.J. PlauntD.M. KonicekZ. LiW.R. Perkins
Absract:Treprostinil (TRE) is a prostanoid analog pulmonary vasodilator drug marketed with subcutaneous, intravenous (i.v.), oral, and inhaled routes of administration for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Due to its short half-life, TRE requires either continuous infusion or multiple dosing, which exacerbates its side effects. Therefore, a long-acting prostanoid analog that maintains the positive attributes of TRE but has fewer TRE-related side effects could be of clinical benefit. In this report, we describe the discovery, preclinical development, and biology of the TRE ester prodrug, treprostinil palmitil (TP), which is formulated in a lipid nanoparticle (LNP) for administration as a nebulized inhaled suspension (TPIS). In screening assays focused on the conversion of prodrug to TRE, TP (16 carbon alkyl chain) had the slowest rate of conversion compared with short–alkyl chain TRE prodrugs (i.e., 2–8 carbon alkyl chain). Furthermore, TP is a pure prodrug and possesses no inherent binding to G-protein coupled receptors including prostanoid receptors. Pharmacokinetic studies in rats and dogs demonstrated that TPIS maintained relatively high concentrations of TP in the lungs yet had a low maximum plasma concentrations (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) of both TP and, more importantly, the active product, TRE. Efficacy studies in rats and dogs demonstrated inhibition of pulmonary vasoconstriction induced by exposure to hypoxic air or i.v.-infused U46619 (thromboxane mimetic) over 24 h with TPIS. Cough was not observed with TPIS at an equivalent dose at which TRE caused cough in guinea pigs and dogs, and there was no evidence of desensitization to the inhibition of pulmonary vasoconstriction in rats with repeat inhaled dosing. TPIS was also more efficacious than i.v.-infused TRE in a sugen/hypoxia rat model of PAH to inhibit pulmonary vascular remodeling, an effect likely driven by local activities of TRE within the lungs. TPIS also demonstrated antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory activity in the lungs in rodent models of pulmonary fibrosis and asthma. In a phase 1 study in healthy human participants, TPIS (referred to as INS1009) had a lower plasma TRE C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and fewer respiratory-related side effects at equimolar doses compared with inhaled TRE. We have now formulated TP as an aerosol powder for delivery by a dry powder inhaler (referred to as treprostinil palmitil inhalation powder-TPIP), and as an aerosol solution in a fluorohydrocarbon solvent for delivery by a metered dose inhaler. These options may reduce drug administration time and involve less device maintenance compared with delivery by nebulization.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2016.05.018
Title:Development of a drug delivery system for efficient alveolar delivery of a neutralizing monoclonal antibody to treat pulmonary intoxication to ricin
Authors:R. RespaudD. MarchandT. PelatK.-M. Tchou-WongC.J. RoyC. ParentM. CabreraJ. GuillemainR. Mac LoughlinE. LevacherA. FontayneL. Douziech-EyrollesA. Junqua-MoulletL. GuilleminaultP. ThullierE. Guillot-CombeL. VecellioN. Heuzé-Vourc'h
Absract:The high toxicity of ricin and its ease of production have made it a major bioterrorism threat worldwide. There is however no efficient and approved treatment for poisoning by ricin inhalation, although there have been major improvements in diagnosis and therapeutic strategies. We describe the development of an anti-ricin neutralizing monoclonal antibody (IgG 43RCA-G1) and a device for its rapid and effective delivery into the lungs for an application in humans. The antibody is a full-length IgG and binds to the ricin A-chain subunit with a high affinity (KD = 53 pM). Local administration of the antibody into the respiratory tract of mice 6 h after pulmonary ricin intoxication allowed the rescue of 100% of intoxicated animals. Specific operational constraints and aerosolization stresses, resulting in protein aggregation and loss of activity, were overcome by formulating the drug as a dry-powder that is solubilized extemporaneously in a stabilizing solution to be nebulized. Inhalation studies in mice showed that this formulation of IgG 43RCA-G1 did not induce pulmonary inflammation. A mesh nebulizer was customized to improve IgG 43RCA-G1 deposition into the alveolar region of human lungs, where ricin aerosol particles mostly accumulate. The drug delivery system also comprises a semi-automatic reconstitution system to facilitate its use and a specific holding chamber to maximize aerosol delivery deep into the lung. In vivo studies in monkeys showed that drug delivery with the device resulted in a high concentration of IgG 43RCA-G1 in the airways for at least 6 h after local deposition, which is consistent with the therapeutic window and limited passage into the bloodstream.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2008.07.002
Title:Nebulized formoterol fumarate: Dose selection and pharmacokinetics
Authors:N.J. GrossE. KerwinB. LevineK.T. KimK. Denis-MizeM. HamzaviM. CarpenterM. Rinehart
Absract:To determine a dose of nebulized formoterol fumarate inhalation solution (FFIS) comparable to that of the marketed formoterol fumarate dry powder inhaler (FA, 12 μg), two crossover studies were conducted in subjects with COPD. Study 1 was a single-dose, double-blind, double-dummy dose-ranging study in which 47 subjects were randomly assigned to treatment sequences that evaluated the bronchodilatory effects of FFIS 2.5, 5, 10, 20, and 40 μg, FA, and placebo over 12 h. Mean FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end AUC@sub_begin0-12@sub_end following FFIS treatment ranged from 1.3 to 3.0 l/h in a dose-related manner, with equivalent values (2.3 l/h) for FFIS 20 μg and FA. Results for other spirometric measures, including peak and trough FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and absolute change in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end by timepoint, confirmed the comparability of FFIS 20 μg and FA. Study results with the nebulized formulation supported the rapid time to onset of bronchodilation with FFIS 20 μg (3.9 and 2.2 min imputed for 15% and 12%/200 ml response, respectively). Study 2, a single-dose, open-label crossover study, was conducted to establish the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of nebulized formoterol and confirm comparability to FA. Thirteen subjects were randomly assigned to treatment sequences with FFIS 10, 20, and 244 μg and FA with a 5-14-day washout period between each treatment. Formoterol levels were assessed from blood and urine collected pre-dose and over a 24-36-h period after dosing. Pharmacodynamic (PD) measures included clinical laboratory and ECG measures pre-dose and over a 24-h period post-dose. FFIS 244 μg was rapidly absorbed with a T@sub_beginmax@sub_end of 12 min and t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end of 6.1 h. Data from other doses were sporadic due to assay sensitivity. The mean amount excreted (Ae) in urine suggested linear kinetics and confirmed the comparability of FFIS 20 μg and FA. Mean serum potassium decreased and mean serum glucose increased transiently in a dose-dependent manner following treatment. No clinically significant ECG changes were observed; mean heart rate increased after treatment with FFIS 244 μg by up to 6 bpm. Findings from dose-ranging and PK/PD studies confirmed that a 20 μg dose of FFIS was comparable to formoterol fumarate delivered by dry powder inhalation (12 μg) and established the dose proportionality and linear kinetics of formoterol fumarate delivered by nebulization. © 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1158/1538-7445.EPSO16-B41
Title:Gold nanoparticles based platforms for localized radiosensitization in cancer radiation therapy
Authors:R. KumarW. NgwaV. JoshiS. KunjachanR. BerbecoM. MakrigiorgosS. Sridhar
Absract:The use of nanoparticles with high atomic (Z) number have been known to attenuate X-rays and the unique properties associated with gold nanoparticles makes them as potent radiosensitizers for enhancing Radiotherapy (RT) treatments. The interaction of high Z materials with the X-rays results in photoelectric absorption which leads to generation of photoelectrons. These low energy photoelectrons can deliver lethal energy in the close proximity. The success of cancer radiation therapy relies heavily on the effective delivery of radiation dose to the tumor site sparing the surrounding normal tissues. To overcome the limitations associated with increasing the radiation dose, due to normal tissue toxicities, the feasibility of radiosensitizing the tumor using gold nanoparticles provide a promising alternative. Targeting gold nanoparticles based formulations to the tumor prior to radiation therapy will result in radiation dose enhancement, by generating secondary photoelectrons, locally inside the tumor and thereby minimizing the dose dependent toxicity to non-specific neighboring tissues. Here, we have developed different Gold nanoparticles based formulations to locally radiosensitize the tumor cells in three different cancer models. For targeting pancreatic cancers, we have fabricated a new generation of GNPs formulation which are 3-4 nm in diameter and surface passivated with hetero-bifunctional PEG, fluorophore AlexaFlour 647 and peptide RGD. This formulation showed a 2.8-fold in vitro cell kill enhancement with X-rays, as demonstrated by clonogenic survival assays. In vivo studies confirmed the highly specific tumor uptake in tumor endothelial cells in orthotopic pancreatic tumor mice model. The combined treatment in animals treated with GNPs and radiation (10Gy) showed the maximum endothelial cells damage, as confirmed with confocal imaging of the tumor sections and CD31 immunostaining. For targeting the lung cancer, we have used the same GNPs formulation but adopted a inhalation/instillation (INH) route for administering the nanoparticles in vivo in transgenic lung cancer mice model as opposed to customary intravenous (i.v) route. Fluorescence imaging and ex-vivo electron microcopy results showed a 4.7 times higher concentration of GNPs in the lung tumors of mice when using INH delivery compared to i.v. approach. The survival studies with these animals are currently underway. For using these radiosensitizing nanoparticles in brachytherapy applications, we have incorporated GNPs in modified brachytherapy spacers to enhance radiation dose locally in tumor without any additional surgical intervention. These spacers are normally placed inside the tumor to spatially distribute the radioactive seeds. The incorporation of GNPs in these spacers allowed for enhancing the radiation dose by the GNPs released from the spacers. These spacers have same morphology (5 mm in length and 0.8 mm in diameter) as commercial spacers with additional radiosensitizing properties because of doped GNPs. We have shown the time dependent release of the GNPs as a function of size of GNPs from the spacers into the tumor by optical imaging. We have further incorporated the GNPs based brachytherapy spacer with the immunoadjuvants, anti-CD40 to combine the radiation and immunotherapy in a single platform. The preliminary results indicate that gold nanoparticles based nanoplatform shows promise as a potential theranostic radiosensitizer which allows for combining multiple therapies in a single platform. This work is supported by ARMY/W81XWH-12-1-0154, NSF DGE 0965843, HHS/5U54CA151881-02, NCI R03CA164645, NCI1 K01CA17247801, the Electronics Materials Research Institute at Northeastern University, and Brigham and Women's Hospital.

doi:10.2165/11537940-000000000-00000
Title:Opioid formulations designed to resist/deter abuse
Authors:R.B. RaffaJ.V. Pergolizzi Jr.
Absract:Physicians who prescribe opioid analgesics for patients with moderate to severe chronic pain face a balancing act in the wake of the current publicity regarding abuse (nonmedical use) of prescription pain killers. There is a spectrum of opioid abuse ranging from those who misuse the drug by not following doctors orders to those who take the drugs to achieve a high or divert the drugs to the street market for profit. Formulations of opioid analgesics designed to resist or deter abuse have been proposed, and are now either on the market or in the pipeline. These are innovative formulations that make the drug less convenient or less desirable to abusers. This article examines three such new products along with clinical studies that report on their safety and effectiveness. These drugs include extended-release morphine with sequestered naloxone (Embeda®), controlled-release oxycodone in a high-viscosity hard gelatin capsule (Remoxy®) and an immediate-release oxycodone tablet with subtherapeutic niacin as an aversive agent (Acurox® with niacin tablets).Extended-release morphine with sequestered naltrexone offers a pharmacological barrier in that pellets of morphine surround an internal core of naltrexone (ratio 100:4 of morphine:naltrexone), which is released if the tablet is compromised by chewing or crushing. The hard gelatin capsule of controlled-release oxycodone was designed to resist tampering and the drug cannot be extracted with a needle. The immediate-release oxycodone formulation with subtherapeutic niacin uses a gel-forming ingredient designed to inhibit inhalation and prevent extraction of the drug for injection. The subtherapeutic niacin is intended to induce flushing and other unpleasant effects if the drug is taken in an excessive quantity. While these drugs hold individual promise, it remains undetermined if they can truly prevent abuse. Drug-seeking individuals are extremely resourceful and show little loyalty to a particular drug when other drugs are available. It is possible that abuse-deterring formulations may divert such individuals to find other drugs that are easier to compromise. Nevertheless, these formulations are important innovations and warrant further study to assess their appropriate role as analgesics. © 2010 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2020.101902
Title:Bioequivalence studies of inhaled indacaterol maleate in healthy Chinese volunteers under gastrointestinal non-blocking or blocking with concomitant charcoal administration
Authors:C. ZouQ. YangS. YangX. ZhangX. YangZ. HuangQ. PeiJ. HuangG. Yang
Absract:Background: Indacaterol is one of the long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonists, referred as first-line monotherapy for Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease since 2011. Generic products are encouraged to benefit the large COPD patients in China, in which can provide more choices association with reduced cost and improve the quality of patient life. Objective: The three-part study consists of two independent cohorts of thirty-six subjects, aimed to evaluate the bioequivalence (BE) of two indacaterol formulations in gastrointestinal (GI) absorption charcoal-block or non-block conditions. One pilot study performed in six healthy subjects to determine the blocking effect of a new charcoal-based regimen on GI absorption after orally inhalation of indacaterol. Methods: Two BE studies were conducted with a randomized, open-label, 2-period crossover design in two independent 36-healthy-subject cohorts, equivalence in systemic and lung deposition was assessed after inhalation of a single dose of 150 μg indacaterol (test or reference formulation) alone or concomitant administration of charcoal. The charcoal-based regimen was improved by optimizing the dose and number of doses, and its blocking efficacy against GI absorption was assessed in a pilot study. Six healthy subjects received 9 g charcoal 10 min before, immediately after and 2 h after indacaterol (3 g/100 ml water × 3 times). Blood collected at predetermined time points up to 72 h. Plasma indacaterol concentrations were determined using HPLC-MS/MS. Pharmacokinetics parameters were calculated with non-compartment analysis. Equivalences were concluded if the 90% confidence interval (CI) for test: reference of C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end fell within the limits of 0.8–1.25. Results: Indacaterol was undetectable in plasma samples in pilot study. The T/R ratio of the geometric mean C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end was 109.9% (90% CI, 106.1–113.8%) and 104.8% (90% CI, 101.5–108.1%) for charcoal-block subjects and 105.4% (90% CI, 99.8% ~ 111.3%), and 101.0% (90% CI, 97.7%–104.4%) for non-block subjects. No serious adverse events were reported. Conclusions: The results showed that 150 μg indacaterol (+/− 9 g charcoal) was well tolerated in all subjects. The two formulations are bioequivalent in terms of the rate and absorption both in charcoal-block and non-block conditions. The improved charcoal-based regimen demonstrated to be effective and fully blockade of GI absorption of indacaterol.

doi:10.1002/ppul.22681
Title:New generation aerosol systems
Authors:D. Geller
Absract:Topical inhaled therapies are a cornerstone of lung health maintenance in CF. The advantages and disadvantages of various existing aerosol delivery systems were reviewed by Dr. Berlinski in the preceding article. Newer aerosol delivery systems have been developed to improve one or more of the perceived deficiencies of standard aerosol devices. These may include improved device efficiency, airway deposition and/or distribution, convenience, portability, or ease of use. Many new devices and drug formulations reduce the time burden for the patient and family, and electronic devices have the capability of monitoring adherence with therapy. Finally there may be purely commercial reasons for companies to develop new devices. Some of the devices discussed here may be relatively new in the U.S. market but have been available in Europe and other global sites. Pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDIs) are not new devices, but many features have been incorporated to improve their function. The conversion from CFC to HFA propellant is almost complete, which in most cases yielded a slower, warmer plume of aerosol. HFA-solution pMDIs (e.g.. beclomethasone, ciclesonide) were designed to yield aerosols with micron-sized particles, thus avoiding upper airway impaction and improving lung deposition and distribution. Dose counters are now incorporated into many pMDIs to indicate when the inhaler is empty, and the first breath-actuated HFA pMDI was recently approved in the U.S., which improves coordination of inhalation and device actuation. Velocitymodifying pMDIs have been developed to reduce the high initial speed of the spray. The Tempo Inhaler combines slow spray velocity with breath actuation to triple the aerosol deposition of a typical pMDI with half the dose-to-dose variability. So far the Tempo has only been combined with a systemic migraine drug, but has the potential to be used for respiratory drugs also. Finally, the slow-mist, propellant-free, multi-dose Respimat inhaler was just introduced in the US for the albuterolipratropium combination, and was used in Phase 3 trials with tiotropium in CF. This device still requires coordination of inhalation and dose-firing, but the mist is very slow and much easier to capture in the inspired airstream, resulting in better lung deposition. Slow-mist inhalers and pMDIs are only capable of delivering microgram drug quantities, so are currently useful mostly for bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids, not for CF drugs. Spacers and valved holding chambers (VHCs) are attachments for inhalers to improve coordination, reduce upper airway dose, or to make inhalers available for use in very young children. These devices are also not new, but several improvements have been made recently. Most of the VHCs now incorporate antistatic materials to reduce drug loss in the chamber, visible flaps to signal that the patient is inhaling properly, low-resistance oneway valves, and improved mask designs to ensure a good seal for small children. Dry-powder inhalers have been available for decades also, mostly for asthma drugs that have been milled and combined with lactose to improve de-aggregation of particles. Recent advances in dry powder formulations have allowed very high payloads of drug to be delivered via capsule-based DPI devices. Examples include colistimethate (125 mg milled powder per capsule, 1 capsule per dose, recently approved in the EU), mannitol (40 mg per capsule of spray-dried material, 10 capsules per dose, approved in Australia and the EU), and tobramycin inhalation powder (28 mg per capsule of hollow, porous, light particles [Pulmosphere technology], 4 capsules per dose, approved in Canada, EU and South American countries). DPIs are small, portable, breath-actuated, require no power source other than the inspiratory effort, reduce administration time and eliminate the need for refrigeration of medication and complex cleaning rituals compared to nebulizers. Cough is a common side effect of using DPIs that deliver a high drug payload. Children under 6 years of age often cannot use DPIs effectively, but there are new technologies that can actively disperse powder into an aerosol; these devices could be breathactuated or could generate aerosol into a holding chamber for passive inhalation using a mouthpiece or mask. Many inhaled CF drugs require nebulization, and these devices were reviewed. Vibrating perforated-membrane nebulizers are faster than jet nebulizers, are portable, battery operated and have unique efficiencies of operation. For example, one of the devices from the eFlow platform (Altera) was developed specifically for the nebulization of aztreonam; it has a very low residual volume and can deliver a dose in 2-3 minutes. Another eFlow device (Trio) has been available in the US for a few years, and is similar to the Altera (low dead volume, high output, 2-4 times the delivery efficiency of jet nebulizers). Another eFlow version (Rapid) has been available in the EU and just received approval in the US. The eFlow Rapid is designed to mimic the aerosol characteristics of the PARI LC PLUS jet nebulizer with the exception of a faster delivery time. Bench studies suggest that the delivery of a unit dose of medication would be similar between an LC PLUS and eFlow Rapid, but higher with the more efficient Trio nebulizer. Thus, one must be cautious about substitution of nebulizers for certain drugs that may have toxicity at higher delivered doses. Vibrating mesh devices address convenience, portability, and time burden, but they still require cleaning and disinfection. In the future these electronic devices can be modified to monitor adherence. Finally, it is well known that if aerosol is inhaled at a very slow rate, deposition in the upper airway decreases, and lower airway deposition and homogeneity of distribution improves. As a bonus, the variability of deposition is reduced (better targeting). Two device technologies help control and slow the inspiratory flow of the patient. The I-neb device uses a vibrating horn and mesh to generate aerosol, monitors the breathing pattern of the patient and aerosolizes only during inspiration (Adaptive Aerosol Delivery, AAD). It can operate in a tidal breathing mode, but its “targeted inhalation mode” (TIM) utilizes a high-resistance mouthpiece and tactile indicators that coach the patient to take slow, deep inhalations. The TIM mode has the benefits of higher deposition efficiency and lower time to administer a dose. A chip in the device also can monitor patient adherence. The I-neb is currently available for the pulmonary hypertension drug iloprost, and also in the UK and a few other countries for colistimethate. The Akita is another device that allows individualized controlled inhalations in combination with either a jet nebulizer or a vibrating mesh. Information about each drug is stored on a “smart card,” the device can be programmed to deliver drug centrally or distally in the lung, and adherence can also be monitored. Recently it was shown that by switching patients using dornase alfa from a jet nebulizer to the Akita mesh device, the peripheral airway function (FEF75) improved, especially in the group that used the device programmed for distal airway delivery. The Akita is currently used in Germany and a few other EU countries. These electronic technologies are relatively expensive, but the improved deposition and homogeneity of distribution (even in partially obstructed airways) may be very important in the development of future expensive therapies, as well as improving the outcomes with older drugs. New technologies are addressing many of the issues that plagued older aerosol delivery systems. New drug formulations in development can be partnered with new devices to improve convenience, adherence and outcomes. Using newer efficient systems with older drugs may require clinical studies to define proper doses in situations in which there is a dose response for efficacy or toxicity.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11120657
Title:Trimethyl chitosan hydrogel nanoparticles for progesteronedelivery inneurodegenerativedisorders
Authors:F. LaiM.C. CardiaA.R. CartaP. CaboniA.M. MaccioniS. ErbìL. BoiM.C. MeloniC. Sinico
Absract:Progesterone is a sex hormone which shows neuroprotective effects in different neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson’s disease, stroke, and Alzheimer’s disease. However, the pharmacokinetic limitations associated with the peripheral administration of this molecule highlight the need for more efficient delivery approaches to increase brain progesterone levels. Since the nose-to-brain administration of mucoadhesive hydrogel nanoparticles is a non-invasive and convenient strategy for the delivery of therapeutics to the central nervous system, in this work, progesterone-loaded hydrogel nanoparticle formulations have been prepared, characterized, and tested in vivo. Nanoparticles, loaded with different progesterone concentrations, have been obtained by polyelectrolyte complex formation between trimethyl chitosan and sodium alginate, followed by ionotropic gelation with sodium tripolyphosphate as a cross-linking agent. All formulations showed a mean diameter ranging from 200 nm to 236 nm, a polydispersity index smaller than 0.23, and a high progesterone encapsulation efficiency (83–95%). The zeta potential values were all positive and greater than 28 mV, thus ensuring nanoparticles stability against aggregation phenomena as well as interaction with negative sialic residues of the nasal mucosa. Finally, in vivo studies on Sprague–Dawley male rats demonstrated a 5-fold increase in brain progesterone concentrations compared to basal progesterone level after 30 min of hydrogel nanoparticle inhalation.

doi:10.2174/092986709789712907
Title:The medicinal chemistry of peptides
Authors:J.J. Nestor Jr.
Absract:The shortcomings of native peptides as pharmaceuticals have been long known: short duration of action, lack of receptor selectivity, lack of oral bioavailability. However medicinal chemistry offers solutions to the first two limitations and oral bioavailability issues have been addressed with novel routes of administration (e.g. intranasal, inhalation) and injectable depot formulations. The principal issue for peptide drugs has been a short duration of action, widely assumed to be due to proteolysis. While proteolysis is a problem for native peptide structures, modification of the peptide structure by acylation, PEGylation, unnatural amino acids or restricted conformation can largely remove this issue. However rapid clearance from the blood into the urine remains an issue for even proteolytically stable molecules. Medicinal chemistry approaches here have been peptide modifications to slow release from the injection site (hydrophobic, hydrophilic, self-associating depots), PEGylation, fatty acid acylation, and the like. Medicinal chemistry approaches used in successful peptide pharmaceuticals using unnatural amino acids to achieve depot formation are highlighted in this review. © 2009 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.1001/archpedi.162.10.952
Title:Cost-effectiveness analysis of anesthetic agents during peripheral intravenous cannulation in the pediatric emergency department
Authors:J. PershadS.C. SteinbergT.M. Waters
Absract:Objective: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of anesthetic agents to reduce the pain of peripheral intravenous cannulation in an emergency department (ED) setting. Design: Cost-effectiveness analysis in which costs were measured as the cost of the agent plus costs associated with time in the ED using data from our hospital cost accounting system. Outcomes were measured as improvements in the self-reported visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores. Variables considered unique to the various agents were cost of the agent, time to peak onset, success rates of cannulation, and mean reduction in VAS scores. Setting: Decision model. Patients: A cohort of patients aged 3 through 18 years enrolled in randomized controlled trials that compared analgesic modalities to facilitate peripheral intravenous cannulation was identified through medical databases searched from their inception (earliest year, 1966) through June 2007. Main Outcome Measures: The main outcome measure was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, which represented the additional cost that must be incurred by the hospital to obtain a reduction of 1 additional unit (10 mm or 1 cm) in the VAS score compared with a baseline option of no anesthetic. Results: Our results suggest that the needle-free jet injection of lidocaine device had the lowest incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, followed by intradermal injection of buffered lidocaine; lidocaine iontophoresis; nitrous oxide inhalation analgesia; a heated lidocaine and tetracaine patch; sonophoresis with lidocaine cream, 4%; lidocaine cream alone, 4%; and use of a eutectic mixture of lidocaine and prilocaine cream. Conclusion: Currently, the needle-free jet injection of lidocaine device and injection of buffered lidocaine appear to provide the most cost-effective alternatives to pediatric ED physicians. ©2008 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1038/nrd2153
Title:Inhaling medicines: Delivering drugs to the body through the lungs
Authors:J.S. PattonP.R. Byron
Absract:Remarkably, with the exception of anaesthetic gases, the ancient human practice of inhaling substances into the lungs for systemic effect has only just begun to be adopted by modern medicine. Treatment of asthma by inhaled drugs began in earnest in the 1950s, and now such 'topical' or targeted treatment with inhaled drugs is considered for treating many other lung diseases. More recently, major advances have led to increasing interest in systemic delivery of drugs by inhalation. Small molecules can be delivered with very rapid action, low metabolism and high bioavailability; and macromolecules can be delivered without injections, as highlighted by the recent approval of the first inhaled insulin product. Here, we review these advances, and discuss aspects of lung physiology and formulation composition that influence the systemic delivery of inhaled therapeutics.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2003.09.041
Title:Formulation and characterization of spray-dried powders containing nanoparticles for aerosol delivery to the lung
Authors:J.O.-H. ShamY. ZhangW.H. FinlayW.H. RoaR. Löbenberg
Absract:Spray-drying is a common practice of powder preparation for a wide range of drugs. Spray-dried powders can be used to deliver particles to the lungs via a dry powder inhaler (DPI). The present study investigated the feasibility of developing a platform for aerosol delivery of nanoparticles. Lactose was used as the excipient and spray-dried with two different types of nanoparticles: gelatin and polybutylcyanoacrylate nanoparticles. Results showed that some carrier particles were hollow while others had a continuous matrix. Gelatin nanoparticles were incorporated throughout the matrix and sometimes accumulated at one end of the lactose. Polycyanoacrylate nanoparticles mostly clustered in different spots within the lactose carriers. The mean sizes of both nanoparticle types were characterized at two different times: before they were spray-dried and after they were redissolved from the spray-dried powders. Both nanoparticle types remained in the nano-range size after spray-drying. The mean nanoparticle sizes were increased by approximately 30% after spray-drying, though this increase was statistically significant only for the gelatin nanoparticles. Dispersion of the powder with an in-house passive dry powder inhaler and subsequent cascade impaction measurements showed that incorporation of the nanoparticles did not affect the fine particle fraction (FPF) or mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of the powders. FPF was approximately 40% while MMAD was 3.0±0.2μm, indicating the present formulations yield aerosols of a suitable particle size for efficient lung delivery of nanoparticles. The present work demonstrates that nanoparticles can be delivered to the lungs via carrier particles that dissolve after coming in contact with the aqueous environment of the lung epithelium. This opens the way for new drug-targeting strategies using nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery of drugs and diagnostics. © 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/089426803321919924
Title:Balancing ethanol cosolvent concentration with product performance in 134a-based pressurized metered dose inhalers
Authors:A. GuptaS.W. SteinP.B. Myrdal
Absract:The effects of formulation parameters on the product performance characteristics of solution metered dose inhalers (MDIs) were determined using ethanol as the cosolvent and HFA 134a as the propellant. Solubility of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) was determined in various blends of 134a and ethanol and was shown to increase with ethanol concentration. Product performance was assessed using the APS Model 3306 Impactor Inlet in conjunction with APS Model 3320 Aerodynamic Particle Sizer (APS). Nine solution formulations containing various BDP and ethanol concentrations were studied. Chemical analysis of the Impactor Inlet was performed in order to determine the "respirable" deposition of the MDI system. With increased ethanol concentration, the throat deposition and plate deposition increased and the respirable deposition decreased. The mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) increased with the increasing drug concentration, but did not show a significant increase with an increase in ethanol concentration. This indicates that the efficiency of solution MDIs decreases with increased ethanol concentration. A Maximum Respirable Mass (MRM) was calculated based on the drug solubility at a particular ethanol concentration and the respirable deposition for a 50mcl valve and QVAR® actuator for that ethanol concentration. The MRM represents the maximum amount of a given drug that can be delivered to the lungs theoretically and is very sensitive to the solubility profile of the drug. The MRM increased with the increasing ethanol concentration in the formulation until a plateau was reached at an ethanol concentration of 10-15% w/w. The MRM initially increases with increase in ethanol concentration due to the increase in drug solubility. However, at higher ethanol concentrations the increase in drug solubility was negated by a decrease in the respirable deposition. This study illustrates the importance of considering both formulation properties and product performance characteristics when optimizing a metered dose inhaler drug delivery system.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(00)00347-1
Title:The influence of carrier morphology on drug delivery by dry powder inhalers
Authors:X.M. ZengG.P. MartinC. MarriottJ. Pritchard
Absract:α-Lactose monohydrate was prepared to have different morphological features but with similar particle size. The crystal shape and surface smoothness of lactose were quantified by a number of shape descriptors and these were supported qualitatively by the visual examination of scanning electron (SE) micrographs of the crystals. All batches of lactose were subjected to a similar history of processing before blending separately with micronised salbutamol sulphate (SS) in a ratio of 67.5:1, w/w, using similar procedures. In vitro deposition of SS from these formulations was investigated after aerosolisation of the formulations at 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end via the Rotahaler® and the Cyclohaler® into a twin stage liquid impinger. The formulations prepared using the different batches of lactose produced different deposition profiles of SS. The fine particle (< 6.4 μm) fraction (FPF) of aerosolised SS varied from 12.6 ± 2.4 to 25.6 ± 1.5% after aerosolisation from the Cyclohaler® whilst it changed from 15.0 ± 2.2 to 24.4 ± 0.8% after aerosolisation from the Rotahaler®. The fine particle dose (FPD) and dispersibility of SS followed a similar trend to the change in the FPF of the drug. No significant difference (ANOVA P > 0.05) was observed for the deposition profiles of SS after aerosolisation from the Rotahaler® and the Cyclohaler®. The FPF and dispersibility of SS increased with either the surface smoothness (P < 0.01) or elongation ratio (P < 0.01) of lactose crystals. The t-ratio values of FPF and dispersibility of SS generated by changes in the surface smoothness were similar to those resulting from changes in elongation ratio. Increasing either the surface smoothness or the elongation ratio of lactose crystals will increase the potentially respirable fraction of SS from dry powder formulations for inhalation. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1007/s11095-021-03061-5
Title:Spray-Congealing and Wet-Sieving as Alternative Processes for Engineering of Inhalation Carrier Particles: Comparison of Surface Properties, Blending and In Vitro Performance
Authors:J.T. PintoS. ZellnitzT. GuidiF. SchiarettiH. SchroettnerA. Paudel
Absract:Purpose: Traditionally, α-lactose monohydrate is the carrier of choice in dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations. Nonetheless, other sugars, such as D-mannitol, have emerged as potential alternatives. Herein, we explored different particle engineering processes to produce D-mannitol carriers for inhaled delivery. Methods: Wet-sieving and spray-congealing were employed as innovative techniques to evaluate the impact of engineering on the particle properties of D-mannitol. To that end, the resulting powders were characterized concerning their solid-state, micromeritics and flowability. Afterwards, the engineered carrier particles were blended with inhalable size beclomethasone dipropionate to form low dose (1 wt%) DPI formulations. The in vitro aerosolization performance was evaluated using the NEXThaler®, a reservoir multi-dose device. Results: Wet-sieving generated D-mannitol particles with a narrow particle size distribution and spray-congealing free-flowing spherical particles. The more uniform pumice particles with deep voids and clefts of wet-sieved D-mannitol (Pearl300_WS) were beneficial to drug aerosolization, only when used in combination with a ternary agent (10 wt% of ‘Preblend’). When compared to the starting material, the spray-congealed D-mannitol has shown to be promising in terms of the relative increase of the fine particle fraction of the drug (around 100%), when used without the addition of ternary agents. Conclusions: The wet-sieving process and the related aerosolization performance are strongly dependent on the topography and structure of the starting material. Spray-congealing, has shown to be a potential process for generating smooth spherical particles of D-mannitol that enhance the in vitro aerosolization performance in binary blends of the carrier with a low drug dose.

doi:10.3389/fimmu.2019.02188
Title:The Rise of Coccidioides: Forces Against the Dust Devil Unleashed
Authors:M.C.C. Van DykeG.R. ThompsonJ.N. GalgianiB.M. Barker
Absract:Coccidioidomycosis (Valley fever) is a fungal disease caused by the inhalation of Coccidioides posadasii or C. immitis. This neglected disease occurs in the desert areas of the western United States, most notably in California and Arizona, where infections continue to rise. Clinically, coccidioidomycosis ranges from asymptomatic to severe pulmonary disease and can disseminate to the brain, skin, bones, and elsewhere. New estimates suggest as many as 350,000 new cases of coccidioidomycosis occur in the United States each year. Thus, there is an urgent need for the development of a vaccine and new therapeutic drugs against Coccidioides infection. In this review, we discuss the battle against Coccidioides including the development of potential vaccines, the quest for new therapeutic drugs, and our current understanding of the protective host immune response to Coccidioides infection.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.05.067
Title:Drug distribution transients in solution and suspension-based pressurised metered dose inhaler sprays
Authors:D.J. DukeH.N. ScottA.J. KusangayaA.L. KastengrenK. MatusikP. YoungD. LewisD. Honnery
Absract:This paper presents in situ time-resolved drug mass fraction measurements in pressurised metered dose inhaler (PMDI) sprays, using a novel combination of synchrotron X-ray fluorescence and scattering. Equivalent suspension and solution formulations of ipratropium bromide in HFA-134a propellant were considered. Measurements were made both inside the expansion chamber behind the nozzle orifice, and in the first few millimeters of the spray where droplet and particle formation occur. We observed a consistent spike in drug mass fraction at the beginning of the spray when the first fluid exits the nozzle orifice. Approximately 20% of the total delivered dose exits the nozzle in the first 0.1 s of the spray. The drug mass fraction in the droplets immediately upon exiting the nozzle peaked at approximately 50% of the canister mass fraction, asymptoting to approximately 20% of the canister concentration. The effect is due to a change in the drug mass fraction inside the droplets, rather than changes in droplet size or distribution. The transient was found to originate inside the expansion chamber. We propose that this effect may be a major contributor to low delivery efficiency in PMDIs, and have important implications for oropharyngeal deposition and inhalation technique. This highlights the importance of expansion chamber and nozzle design on the structure of PMDI sprays, and indicates areas of focus that may lead to improvement in drug delivery outcomes.

doi:10.1186/s40248-018-0164-1
Title:Enabling pulmonary delivery of siRNA in cystic fibrosis lung inflammation: therapeutic potential of hybrid lipid/polymer nanoparticles
Authors:U. FrancescaM. Olivia
Absract:Background and rational The down-regulation of genes directly involved in the pathogenesis of severe lung diseases through pulmonary delivery of short RNA fragments, also known as siRNA, has gained recently remarkable research interest, especially in cystic fibrosis (CF). Nevertheless, the unsuccessful history of inhaled siRNA points out the urgent need of an appropriate formulation strategy to move them from the laboratory to the bedside. Hypothesis and objectives The generation of breakthrough technologies and their translation into new pharmaceutical products is crucial for CF treatment. In this context, the general aim of the present project is the integrated development of inhalable hybrid nanoparticles (hNPs) for siRNA delivery made up of a combination of lipids and polymers. To allow a proof-of-concept of the soundness of this approach, the in vitro/ in vivo therapeutic potential of hNPs delivering a siRNA against one of the most critical signals in evoking the inflammatory response in CF, the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), has been assessed. Essential methods hNPs delivering a siRNA pool against NF-κB have been prepared from biodegradable polymers and endogenous phospholipids. Toxicity, uptake and efficacy of siRNA-loaded hNPs have been evaluated in different human airway cell culture models, providing a tool to optimise hNP properties for in vivo pulmonary delivery. In vivo studies have been performed in rats challenged intratracheally with LPS from E. Coli to induce pulmonary inflammation. Results Lipid/polymer hNPs for sustained release at lungs of a siRNA pool against NF-κB have been successfully developed. The most adequate formulation conditions to produce non-PEGylated and PEGylated siRNA-loaded hNPs with optimal aerosolization and mucus-penetrating properties have been identified. Preliminary in vitro data suggest that siRNA-loaded hNPs are not cytotoxic and may penetrate lung extracellular barriers, allowing siRNA uptake inside human bronchial epithelial cells. Furthermore, a rat model of lung inflammation has been set up and validated to start with in vivo efficacy studies. Conclusions The correct operating conditions to produce nanoparticles for prolonged release of siRNA in CF have been identified, providing a siRNA delivery system already engineered for in vivo inhalation and transfection.

doi:10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-18-000127
Title:Effects of buprenorphine in a preclinical orthotopic tumor model of ovarian carcinoma in female CB17 SCID mice
Authors:N.A. BratcherD.J. FrostJ. HicksonX. HuangL.M. MedinaA. OleksijewD.C. FergusonS. Bolin
Absract:In the development of cancer therapeutics, no suitable replacements for the use of animals that are capable of modeling such complex disease processes are currently available. In orthotopic models, surgery is often required to access the target organ for tumor cell inoculation. Historically analgesics have been withheld in such models in light of potential effects on tumor development. The current study evaluated the effect of the opioid buprenorphine on tumor growth of a human ovarian cancer cell line (OVCAR5 OT luc2 mCherry). Female CB17 SCID mice (n = 150) underwent surgery for orthotopic inoculation and were assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups: Vehicle control, 1 dose of buprenorphine, or 2 doses of buprenorphine administered perioperatively. Bioluminescence imaging revealed no significant difference on tumor engraftment rate or growth between control and analgesia-treated groups. These data demonstrate that acute, perioperative analgesia with buprenorphine did not alter tumor growth. Although further research is needed to evaluate potential effects of buprenorphine in other cell lines and mouse strains, the justification for withholding analgesia and the potential influence of pain and stress due to insufficient analgesia in these models should be considered thoroughly.

doi:10.1016/j.jep.2013.10.013
Title:Effects of inhalable microparticle of flower of Lonicera japonica in a mouse model of COPD
Authors:Y.-C. ParkM. JinS.-H. KimM.-H. KimU. NamgungY. Yeo
Absract:Ethnopharmacological relevance: Flower of Lonicera japonica (FLJ) is a traditional herbal medicine widely used in East Asia as an anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative agent. The purpose of this study is to develop an inhalable powder formulation of FLJ and to evaluate its biological effects in a mouse model of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Methods Inhalable dry powder containing FLJ was produced by spray-drying with leucine as an excipient. Its aerodynamic properties and anti-inflammatory activities were evaluated using the Anderson cascade impactor (ACI) and a mouse model of COPD, respectively. Results FLJ microparticle (FLJmp) had a hollow spherical shape in electron microscopy and showed aerodynamic properties suitable for inhalation (fine particle fraction of 54.0±4.68% and mass median aerodynamic diameter of 4.6±0.34 μm). FLJmp decreased TNF-α and IL-6 expression in RAW264.7 cells activated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In mice challenged with LPS and cigarette smoke solution (CSS) to develop COPD, FLJmp decreased the levels of TNF-α and IL-6 in bronchoalveolar fluidas well as the number of inflammatory cells including neutrophils in peripheral blood. In addition, FLJmp induced recovery of elastin and collagen distribution, reduction of caspase-3 expression in lung tissues of COPD mice. Conclusions Inhalational delivery of FLJ using a microparticle system is a promising strategy for the treatment of COPD. © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-391860-4.00017-3
Title:Nanoparticle-mediated treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:W. MosgoellerR. PrasslA. Zimmer
Absract:Nanomedicine is an emerging field with great opportunities to improve the treatment of diseases which are currently not curable. Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is one of these diseases treatable by inhalation of medicines that provide novel depots for drugs with short pharmacological half-lives to improve the quality of life for patients. In this context, nanostructured drug delivery systems such as liposomes and polymeric nanoparticles are depot forms that can also act as penetration enhancers and solubilizers of drugs. The pulmonary use of these drug carriers will improve the therapeutic effect of potent drugs that are currently not fully applicable. This review focuses on the design and characterization of drug delivery systems with the potential to improve the treatment options for hypertonic conditions (like PAH). Liposomes as well as polymeric nanoparticles based on lactic acid, proticles and nanocrystalline drugs have good potential to be developed toward clinical use. Preparation methods and characterization techniques of nanoparticles such as light scattering or microscopy are provided. © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.4155/fmc.11.133
Title:Novel cosuspension metered-dose inhalers for the combination therapy of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma
Authors:D. Lechuga-BallesterosB. NogaR. VehringR.H. CummingsS.K. Dwivedi
Absract:Pressurized metered dose inhaler is the most common inhaled dosage form, ideally suited for delivering the highly potent compounds that medicinal chemists typically discover for respiratory therapeutic targets. The clinical benefit of combination therapy for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease has been well established, and many of the new discovery candidates are likely to be studied in the clinic as combination drugs even at early stages of development. We present a novel pressurized metered dose inhaler formulation approach to enable consistent aerosol performance of a respiratory therapeutic whether it is emitted from a single-, double- or triple-therapy product. This should enable rapid nonclinical and clinical assessment whether alone or in combination with other drugs, without the challenge of in vitro performance dissimilarity across product types. © 2011 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1111/j.2042-7158.2011.01324.x
Title:Recent advances in bacteriophage therapy: How delivery routes, formulation, concentration and timing influence the success of phage therapy
Authors:E.M. RyanS.P. GormanR.F. DonnellyB.F. Gilmore
Absract:Objectives Bacteriophages are bacteria-specific viruses that infect and, in the case of obligately lytic phages, destroy their host bacteria. Phage therapy has been used therapeutically to combat bacterial infections since their discovery. This paper reviewed recent in-vivo phage therapy studies, with a distinct focus on the effect of delivery routes, phage concentration and timing of administration on the success of the therapy. Key findings It was found that the most successful route of administration for the treatment of systemic infections was via the parenteral route. Oral delivery is mainly used to treat gastrointestinal infections. However, in some cases phages can also reach the systemic circulation. Local delivery (skin, ears, teeth) has proved extremely successful in the treatment of topical infections, as has the inhalation of phages for the treatment of lung infections. The ability of phages to prevent biofilm formation on medical devices has received much attention, mainly in the area of catheter coatings. This review also highlights areas in which phage therapy needs substantial development. Many papers were lacking in formulation details, with crude phage stocks being used in most cases. No phage stability data were included in any of the papers. Summary The review concluded that although phage therapy is an excellent alternative for the treatment of bacterial infections, optimisation of formulations and long-term stability data is required before it can be widely used within a clinical setting. © 2011 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

doi:10.3109/10611860903079454
Title:Niosomes in sustained and targeted drug delivery: Some recent advances
Authors:A. AzeemM.K. AnwerS. Talegaonkar
Absract:Niosomes represent an emerging class of novel vesicular systems. They are composed of nonionic surfactants which are biodegradable and relatively nontoxic. They were developed as stable and inexpensive alternatives to liposomes. Since their early introduction to cosmetic industry their role has diversified to other application areas. They are now being ardently explored as potential carriers for sustained and targeted drug delivery. In addition to conventional, oral, and parenteral routes, they are amenable to be delivered by ocular, transdermal, vaginal, and inhalation routes. Delivery of biotechnological products including vaccine delivery with niosomes is also an interesting and promising research area. The introduction of provesicular approach in the form of proniosomes has further increased the relevance of these systems. More concerted research efforts, however, are still required to realize the full potential of these novel systems. This review considers the current status and explores the potential of niosomes in drug delivery with special attention to their role in drug targeting. Their methods of preparation, formulation aspects, advantages, limitations, and applications are also discussed. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1517/17425247.1.1.67
Title:Dry powder inhalers for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:H.W. FrijlinkA.H. De Boer
Absract:The pulmonary route is an interesting route for drug administration, both for effective local therapy (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or cystic fibrosis) and for the systemic administration of drugs (e.g., peptides and proteins). Well-designed dry powder inhalers are highly efficient systems for pulmonary drug delivery. However, they are also complicated systems, the the performance of which relies on many aspects, including the design of the inhaler (e.g., resistance to air flow and the used de-agglomeration principle to generate the inhalation aerosol), the powder formulation and the air flow generated by the patient. The technical background of these aspects, and how they may be tuned in order to obtain desired performance profiles, is reviewed. In light of the technical background, new developments and possibilities for further improvements are discussed. © 2004 Ashley Publications Ltd.

doi:10.1007/s40005-021-00529-9
Title:Surface modification strategies for high-dose dry powder inhalers
Authors:H. ParkE.-S. HaM.-S. Kim
Absract:Background: There is a growing interest in the use of dry powder inhalers (DPIs) for administering high-dose drugs with low potency to the lungs as carrier-free formulations to treat both local pulmonary and systemic diseases. The main purpose of particle engineering and formulation design in the development of high-dose DPIs without carrier is to reduce the cohesive property of the particles and overcome the large inter-particulate interaction while enhancing powder dispersion and lung delivery upon inhalation and maintaining stability without agglomeration during storage. In particular, the cohesive property of high-dose DPIs can induce several physiological and physicochemical problems that must be improved. Area covered: This review describes various particle surface modification methods, including sophisticated particle engineering (such as micronization) and formulation techniques, which are utilized to overcome the problems associated with high-dose DPIs. Expert opinion: Currently, changing the cohesive property of particles through various micronization processes and improving the surface properties of particles through co-processing with limited excipients have been mainly used as efficient methods for particle surface modification. Using these technological principles, novel approaches have been attempted to develop inhalable drug particles, such as high-dose antibiotics and high-value biopharmaceuticals. The research on high-dose DPIs has expanded widely, and consequently, the drugs that received recent regulatory approvals have been successful based on the research results. Thus, it is expected that the next generation of DPIs will be safer and have higher therapeutic efficacy beyond the limitations of traditional high-dose DPIs.

doi:10.1002/jac5.1059
Title:An evaluation of inhaled pharmacotherapy use in patients hos pitalized for asthma indications
Authors:J. HarrisJ. Andrew WoodsZ. Inge
Absract:INTRODUCTION: In 2013, the total cost of asthma in the United States was estimated to be $81.9 billion including absenteeism. From 2008-2013, absenteeism costs approximated $3 billion in losses. Annual incremental cost per person associated with asthma hospitali-zation was $529. (Ann Am Thorac Soc 2018;15(3):348.) One approach to decrease costs associated with absenteeism and hospitalization is to decrease the length of stay (LOS). Based on findings in an inhaled pharmacotherapy review in hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease hypothesizing missed scheduled inhaled medications may increase LOS (Southern Medical Journal 2011;104(11):742.), we hypothesized missing inhaled scheduled medication administrations in hospitalized patients with asthma may increase LOS. RESEARCH QUESTION OR HYPOTHESIS: Does missing scheduled inhaled pharmacotherapies correlate to increased LOS in hospitalized patients aged 2-17 years with asthma in 2016? STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective review. METHODS: Inhaled pharmacotherapies included short-acting beta-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), and combinations of ICS with long-acting beta-agonists. Information collected included: patient age, data and time of patient admission and discharge and order start and end, pharmacotherapy ordered, formulation, number of inhalations and dose per scheduled administration, and number of scheduled and missed doses. Wilcoxon Mann Whitney tests and Spearman correlations were calculated using SAS 9.3 TS Level 1M2. RESULTS: LOS (mean=49.5 hours) for patients who missed ≥1 administration (n=63, mean score=92.6) and those who did not (n=84, mean score=60.1) differed significantly (p<0.0001). The Spearman coefficients for age (mean=7.3 years), number of missed administrations (mean=0.78), percentage of missed administrations (mean=3.2%), number of scheduled administrations (mean=21.5), and percentage of scheduled administrations (mean=96.8%) with LOS were: 0.1172 (p=0.1577), 0.40039 (p<0.0001), 0.26633 (p=0.0011), 0.90887 (p<0.0001), and-0.26633 (p=0.0011) respectively. CONCLUSION: The largest correlation of LOS was the number of scheduled administrations given followed by the number of administrations missed. The percentage of administrations given had a negative correlation to LOS emphasizing the importance of administering the majority of inhaled pharmacotherapies.

doi:10.1517/17425247.2015.999039
Title:Nebulization as a delivery method for mAbs in respiratory diseases
Authors:R. RespaudL. VecellioP. DiotN. Heuzé-Vourc'h
Absract:Introduction: The pulmonary route is not invasive and can be used to target drugs directly to the lungs, limiting the exposure of secondary organs. It is, thus, an attractive alternative to the intravenous route, for the delivery of mAbs, which display limited transfer from blood into the lungs.Areas covered: This review provides an overview of the pharmacological properties of antibody-based treatments, describes those for respiratory diseases and discusses preclinical/clinical results of aerosolized antibody-based therapeutics. The advantages and limitations of aerosol devices and the formulation for the administration of aerosolized mAbs are also detailed.Expert opinion: Overall, the inhalation of mAbs for therapeutic purposes is both appropriate and feasible. The size and structure of the biotherapeutic molecule are important properties to be taken into account when trying to achieve long-term retention. Mesh nebulizers currently appear to be the most appropriate devices for the safe delivery of large amounts of active mAb into the lungs. mAbs should be formulated so as to prevent their degradation and possible immunogenicity. General guidelines can be given for mAb aerosolization, but the formulation and device combination should be adapted for each therapeutic and clinical application.

doi:10.4155/tde.12.79
Title:Peptide therapeutics: Its all in the delivery
Authors:M. GrantA. Leone-Bay
Absract:Recent work has demonstrated that the route of administration affects the pharmacokinetics and biological activity of peptides. For example, the physiological profile of insulin consists of basal and prandial components with a small-scale oscillatory element. Insulin is used more efficiently when the pharmacokinetic profile mimics features of physiological release. Noninvasive administration of insulin by oral, transdermal, nasal and pulmonary routes resembles the relatively sharp peak and short duration of exposure of prandial release. The route of administration per se, can affect the response by avoiding first-pass metabolism or perhaps altering the timing in which the peptide reaches different sets of receptors. GLP-1 delivered by injection and inhalation produces different side effect profiles. Nonclinical studies on two potential treatments for obesity, oxyntomodulin and PYY 3-36, are also presented to illustrate the relationship between exposure and effect as functions of route of administration. © 2012 Future Science Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.12.018
Title:Dry powder inhalers: Mechanistic evaluation of lactose formulations containing salbutamol sulphate
Authors:W. KaialyM. TicehurstA. Nokhodchi
Absract:The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationships between physicochemical properties and aerosolisation performance of different grades of lactose. In order to get a wide range of physicochemical properties, various grades of lactose namely Flowlac® 100 (FLO), Lactopress anhydrous® 250 (LAC), Cellactose® 80 (CEL), Tablettose® 80 (TAB), and Granulac® 200 (GRA) were used. The different lactose grades were carefully sieved to separate 63-90 μm particle size fractions and then characterised in terms of size, shape, density, flowability, and solid state. Formulations were prepared by blending each lactose with salbutamol sulphate (SS) at ratio of 67.5:1 (w/w), and then evaluated in terms of SS content uniformity, lactose-SS adhesion properties, and in vitro aerosolisation performance delivered from the Aerolizer®. Sieved lactose grades showed similar particle size distributions (PSDs) and good flow properties but different particle shape, particle surface texture, and particle solid state. Content uniformity assessments indicated that lactose particles with rougher surface produced improved SS homogeneity within DPI formulation powders. Lactose-SS adhesion assessments indicated that lactose particles with more elongated shape and the rougher surface showed smaller adhesion force between lactose and salbutamol sulphate. Lactose powders with higher bulk density and higher tap density produced smaller emission (EM) and higher drug loss (DL) of SS. In vitro aerosolisation for various lactose grades followed the following rank order in terms of deposition performance: GRA > TAB > LAC ≈ CEL > FLO. Linear relationships were established showing that in order to maximize SS delivery to lower airway regions, lactose particles with more elongated shape, more irregular shape, and rougher surface are preferred. Therefore, considerable improvement in DPI performance can be achieved by careful selection of grade of lactose included within DPI formulations. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/14656566.5.5.1163
Title:Flunisolide HFA for the treatment of asthma: An old friend reformulated
Authors:S. ShafazandG. Colice
Absract:The environmental mandate to eliminate the production of ozone-depleting products including chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellants has encouraged much needed research into improving modes of delivery of inhaled corticosteroids and enhancing drug deposition. Consequently, flunisolide CFC, an inhaled corticosteroid with a proven track record in the treatment of asthma, has been reformulated using a hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) as a propellant and is now awaiting FDA approval. Flunisolide HFA is a solution aerosol, unlike flunisolide CFC which is a suspension aerosol. As a solution aerosol, flunisolide HFA has a smaller mean particle size than flunisolide CFC. In addition, the built-in spacer included in the flunisolide HFA inhaler acts to reduce ex-actuator particle size; the smaller particle size of flunisolide HFA results in an improved deposition profile. Flunisolide HFA has substantially more lung deposition and much less oropharyngeal deposition than flunisolide CFC. Limited information is currently available on the clinical performance of flunisolide HFA. A single dose-response study has been performed in adults and in children comparing multiple doses of flunisolide HFA and flunisolide CFC. These studies indicate that flunisolide HFA is effective in controlling asthma. No unusual safety concerns have been noted, although further studies are needed to determine the long-term systemic effects of flunisolide HFA. 2004 © Ashley Publications Ltd.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2016.1300
Title:Inhaled Antibiotic Therapy for the Treatment of Upper Respiratory Tract Infections
Authors:S. EspositoC. RosazzaC.S. SciarrabbaN. Principi
Absract:Upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs), primarily acute rhinopharyngitis, tonsillitis, adenoiditis, and rhinosinusitis (RS), are major causes of morbidity in both children and adults of any age. In addition to the frequent occurrence of related medical problems and the associated socioeconomic costs, URTIs have a significant impact on the quality of life of patients and their families, and have placed an escalating financial burden on the global healthcare system. Most URTIs are caused by viruses and require only symptomatic treatment. However, a number of cases, particularly those that are severe, recurrent, or chronic, have a bacterial etiology and need appropriate antimicrobial treatment to avoid complications or frequent exacerbations. To ensure therapeutic antibiotic concentration without any significant systemic drug exposure, the direct delivery of antibiotics to the upper respiratory tract by inhalation is a potential solution. The main aim of this review is to determine if and when aerosolized antibiotics can be effectively used to treat URTIs in noncystic fibrosis (non-CF) patients. There is a lack of strong evidence for the use of nebulized antibiotics to treat URTIs in non-CF patients. The only disease for which positive results have been reported is chronic RS in adults. However, conflicting conclusions have been drawn, and many problems related to the drug of choice, dosages, duration of treatment, and the best device for administration remain unsolved. Further studies are needed to better determine when and through which treatment modalities inhaled antibiotics can positively modify the course of chronic RS.

pui:606843474
Title:Development of carrier free montelukast dry powder inhalation formulation
Authors:P. FaramarziI. HaririanS. GhanbarzadehS. YaqoubiH. Hamishehkar
Absract:While there are several approaches for treating pulmonary diseases, dry powder inhaler systems for pulmonary delivery have the encouraging potential to be alternative routes to oral drug administration. Particle engineering for pulmonary delivery can be performed by changing spray-drying conditions and formulation parameters which have an effect on the characteristics and morphology of particles. The present study aimed to prepare Montelukast sodium microparticles using the spray-drying technique to improve their respirable fraction and, as a result, their systemic bioavailability. In this study, microparticles were prepared using optimized process parameters and were characterized for aerosolization efficiency and different physicochemical parameters, including morphology, fine particle fraction (FPF), mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), and geometric standard deviation (GSD) using scanning electron microscope (SEM), powder X-ray diffractometer, and Next Generation Impactor. Moreover, ammonium bicarbonate was used to reduce the aerodynamic diameter and aggregation of microparticles. SEM images showed that microparticles were in the appropriate range and had the appropriate shape and surface characteristics for pulmonary delivery. FPF, MMAD, and GSD for the optimized formulation were 48.3±5 %, 3.63±5.4 ìm, and 1.86±0.05, respectively. The addition of ammonium bicarbonate did not improve the aerosolization efficiency indexes. An evaluation of the aerosolization performance of spray-dried formulations indicated that the concentration of feed solution and solvent type substantially influenced aerosolization efficiency.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.10.030
Title:Influence of the lactose grade within dry powder formulations of fluticasone propionate and terbutaline sulphate
Authors:V.N.P. LeH. BierendE. RobinsH. SteckelM.P. Flament
Absract:Dry powder formulations are often composed of fine drug particles and coarser carrier particles, typically alpha-lactose monohydrate. However, the performance of a powder formulation may be highly dependent on the lactose quality and source. This study investigated the characteristics of lactose that influence the drug-to-carrier interaction and the performance of lactose-based dry powder inhaler formulations. The selected lactoses differed in the preparation processes and the content of fine lactose particles. Efficiency testing was done using fluticasone propionate and terbutaline sulphate as model drugs. Inverse gas chromatography was used to determine the surface heterogeneity distribution of different energy sites of the lactose and to understand the mechanism by which the fine carrier particles can improve the performance of dry powder inhalers. To assess the adhesion of respirable-sized drug to carrier particles, a simple method was developed based on aspiration and considering the whole blend as it is used in dry powder inhalers. When the percentage of fine lactose is high, a lower quantity of drug adheres to the lactose and/or the adhesion force is also lower. This was confirmed by the aerosolization assays done in the TSI (twin stage impinger). A correlation was observed between adhesion characteristics and inertial impaction. For both drugs, the fine particle fractions were highest in blends that present a greater proportion of lactose fine particles. A fairly good correlation between the fine particle fractions of both drugs and the peak max value and the AUC (area under curve) were found by inverse gas chromatography. With higher fine particle fraction values, which correspond to higher content of fines, the peak maxima determined by inverse gas chromatography were shifted to higher adsorption potentials, which supports the agglomeration hypothesis. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1007/s11095-019-2666-8
Title:Development and Characterization of a Dry Powder Formulation for Anti-Tuberculosis Drug Spectinamide 1599
Authors:I.E. StewartP.B. LukkaJ. LiuB. MeibohmM. Gonzalez-JuarreroM.S. BraunsteinR.E. LeeA.J. Hickey
Absract:Purpose: Human tuberculosis (TB) is a global health problem that causes nearly 2 million deaths per year. Anti-TB therapy exists, but it needs to be administered as a cocktail of antibiotics for six months. This lengthy therapy results in low patient compliance and is the main reason attributable to the emergence of multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Methods: One alternative approach is to combine anti-TB multidrug therapy with inhalational TB therapy. The aim of this work was to develop and characterize dry powder formulations of spectinamide 1599 and ensure in vitro and in vivo delivered dose reproducibility using custom dosators. Results: Amorphous dry powders of spectinamide 1599 were successfully spray dried with mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) = 2.32 ± 0.05 μm. The addition of L-leucine resulted in minor changes to the MMAD (1.69 ± 0.35 μm) but significantly improved the inhalable portion of spectinamide 1599 while maintaining amorphous qualities. Additionally, we were able to demonstrate reproducibility of dry powder administration in vitro and in vivo in mice. Conclusions: The corresponding systemic drug exposure data indicates dose-dependent exposure in vivo in mice after dry powder intrapulmonary aerosol delivery in the dose range 15.4 - 32.8 mg/kg.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.5b00064
Title:Pulmonary Delivery of Voriconazole Loaded Nanoparticles Providing a Prolonged Drug Level in Lungs: A Promise for Treating Fungal Infection
Authors:P.J. DasP. PaulB. MukherjeeB. MazumderL. MondalR. BaishyaM.C. DebnathK.S. Dey
Absract:Current therapies are insufficient to prevent recurrent fungal infection especially in the lower part of the lung. A careful and systematic understanding of the properties of nanoparticles plays a significant role in the design, development, optimization, and in vivo performances of the nanoparticles. In the present study, PLGA nanoparticles containing the antifungal drug voriconazole was prepared and two best formulations were selected for further characterization and in vivo studies. The nanoparticles and the free drug were radiolabeled with technetium-99m with 90% labeling efficiency, and the radiolabeled particles were administered to investigate the effect on their blood clearance, biodistribution, and in vivo gamma imaging. In vivo deposition of the drug in the lobes of the lung was studied by LC-MS/MS study. The particles were found to be spherical and had an average hydrodynamic diameter of 300 nm with a smooth surface. The radiolabeled particles and the free drug were found to accumulate in various major organs. Drug accumulation was more pronounced in the lung in the case of administration of the nanoparticles than that of the free drug. The free drug was found to be excreted more rapidly than the nanoparticle containing drug following the inhalation route as assessed by gamma scintigraphy study. Thus, the study reveals that pulmonary administration of nanoparticles containing voriconazole could be a better therapeutic choice even as compared to the iv route of administration of the free drug and/or the drug loaded nanoparticles.

doi:10.1016/j.peptides.2009.09.032
Title:Inhalable powder formulation of a stabilized vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) derivative: Anti-inflammatory effect in experimental asthmatic rats
Authors:S. MisakaY. AokiS.-i. KarakiA. KuwaharaT. MizumotoS. OnoueS. Yamada
Absract:Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) exerts immunomodulating and anti-inflammatory activities through its specific receptors, such as VPAC1 and 2 receptors. Previously, a stabilized VIP derivative, [R@sup_begin15,20,21@sup_end, L@sup_begin17@sup_end]-VIP-GRR (IK312532), was proposed as a candidate of anti-asthma drug, and a dry powder inhaler system of IK312532 was also developed for inhalation therapy with minimal systemic side-effects. In the present study, the anti-inflammatory properties of IK312532 respirable powder (RP) were characterized in an asthma/COPD-like animal model, with the use of newly developed ovalbumin (OVA)-RP for lung inflammation. Marked inflammatory events in the lung were observed after OVA-RP challenge in rats as evidenced by significant increase of inflammatory biomarkers such as eosinophil peroxidase (EPO), myeloperoxidase (MPO) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). However, intratracheal administration of IK312532-RP led to significant attenuation of plasma EPO, MPO and LDH activities, as well as significant reduction of recruited inflammatory cells in BALF, especially macrophages and eosinophils. In the rats pretreated with IK312532-RP, histochemical examinations revealed that the inflammatory cells infiltrating to the lung and the epithelial wall thickness decreased significantly by 85% and 58%, respectively. Thus, inhalable powder formulation of IK312532 exerts its anti-inflammatory activity by suppressing granulocyte recruitment to the lung and epithelial hyperplasia, followed by the reduction of cytotoxic peroxidases. © 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/jps.21441
Title:Physicochemical characterization and stability of rifampicin liposome dry powder formulations for inhalation
Authors:N. ChangsanH.-K. ChanF. SeparovicT. Srichana
Absract:Liposomes were used to encapsulate rifampicin (RIF) as an alternative formulation for delivery to the respiratory tract. Factors affecting the stability of liposomes containing RIF were determined. Four liposome suspensions were prepared, containing different millimole ratios of cholesterol (CH) and soybean L-∞-phosphatidylcholine (SPC) by the chloroform film method, followed by freeze-drying. Cryo-transmission electron microscopy, photon correlation spectroscopy, @sup_begin2@sup_endH and @sup_begin31@sup_endP solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance were used to characterize the liposome suspensions. Differential scanning calorimetry and X-ray diffraction were used to examine the properties of the powder formulations. The powder was dispersed through an Andersen cascade impactor to evaluate the performance of the aerosolized powder. The liposomes were a mixture of 200-300 nm unilamellar and multilamellar vesicles. Higher CH content in the liposome formulation resulted in a smaller change in size distribution with time, and higher CH content was associated with an increase in the @sup_begin2@sup_endH NMR splitting, indicative of an increase in order of the lipid acyl chains. Furthermore, the SS-NMR results indicated that RIF was located between the acyl chains of the phospholipid bilayer and associated with CH molecules. Fifty percent encapsulation of RIF was obtained when the lipid content was high (SPC 10 mM: CH 10 mM). Mannitol was found to be a suitable cryoprotectant, which is attributed to its crystallinity, and use of mannitol gave particles with a mass median aerodynamic diameter of less than 5 μm. In terms of chemical stability, RIF in dry powder formulations was considerably more stable when compared to RIF aqueous solutions and RIF liposomal suspensions. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1053/rmed.1999.0678
Title:Therapeutic equivalence of inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate with CFC and non-CFC (HFA 134a) propellants: Both delivered via the Easibreathe(TM) inhaler for the treatment of paediatric asthma
Authors:I.S. FarmerM. MiddleJ. SavicV.L. PerrinM.J. Herdman
Absract:Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-containing inhalers for use in the treatment of asthma are to be phased out under the terms of the Montreal Protocol (1). In this multi-centre, randomized, double-blind study, the therapeutic equivalence of two formulations of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) containing CFC or non-CFC (HFA134a) propellant,both delivered via the Easibreathe(TM) (Norton Healthcare Ltd, London, U.K.) inhaler, was determined in 229 asthmatic children. Each child received 100 μg doses of BDP (containing either CFC or HFA propellant) twice daily for 12 weeks. Both CFC and HFA formulations produced statistically and clinically significant improvements in patient's lung function and symptom scores when administered via the Easibreathe(TM) inhaler. The improvements in mean morning peak expiratory flow (PEF) were 41 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 34 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end for the BDP-HFA and BDP-CFC products respectively (P < 0.001) and for mean evening PEF the improvements were 38 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end and 38 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively (P < 0.001). Similar findings were demonstrated for the other efficacy parameters. The two formulations were statistically equivalent with respect to efficacy. For mean morning PEF the estimated treatment difference (BDP-CFC/BDP-HFA ratio) was 102.6% (95% CI 99.1, 106.2). Similar equivalence was shown for the other efficacy parameters. Both products were well tolerated, with no difference in the adverse event profiles, effects on 24 h urinary cortisol or Candida colonisation. This study demonstrates that the new formulation of BDP with HFA-134a propellant is equivalent to and directly substitutable for BDP with the older CEC propellant in a dose for dose manner. This should enable a seamless transition from one product to the other when CFC containing products are eventually phased out. In addition this study has also shown that the Easibreathe(TM) inhaler is an effective delivery system for use with inhaled products for the treatment of asthma in children.

doi:10.3390/ijms17101688
Title:Inhalable antimicrobials for treatment of bacterial biofilm-associated sinusitis in cystic fibrosis patients: Challenges and drug delivery approaches
Authors:S.N. KlodzińskaP.A. PriemelT. RadesH.M. Nielsen
Absract:Bacterial biofilm-associated chronic sinusitis in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections and the lack of available treatments for such infections constitute a critical aspect of CF disease management. Currently, inhalation therapies to combat P. aeruginosa infections in CF patients are focused mainly on the delivery of antimicrobials to the lower respiratory tract, disregarding the sinuses. However, the sinuses constitute a reservoir for P. aeruginosa growth, leading to re-infection of the lungs, even after clearing an initial lung infection. Eradication of P. aeruginosa from the respiratory tract after a first infection has been shown to delay chronic pulmonary infection with the bacteria for up to two years. The challenges with providing a suitable treatment for bacterial sinusitis include: (i) identifying a suitable antimicrobial compound; (ii) selecting a suitable device to deliver the drug to the sinuses and nasal cavities; and (iii) applying a formulation design, which will mediate delivery of a high dose of the antimicrobial directly to the site of infection. This review highlights currently available inhalable antimicrobial formulations for treatment and management of biofilm infections caused by P. aeruginosa and discusses critical issues related to novel antimicrobial drug formulation design approaches.

doi:10.1016/j.phclin.2012.01.004
Title:Cost analysis of treating lumbar disc herniation using different general anesthesia techniques
Authors:P. OsterF. RaffyG. AudibertA. BaumannA. MassonM. LabrudeP.-M. Mertes
Absract:Study objective: This study was designed to compare pharmaceuticals costs of target control infusion (TCI) with propofol into two packaging (prefilled syringe and bottle), versus inhalation with sevoflurane or isoflurane. Design: Prospective, monocentric, current care study. Setting: Teaching hospital. Patients: On forty adults undergoing lumbar disc herniation surgery. Interventions: Patients were divided into four groups: propofol TCI driven by Schnider model target concentration, either with prefilled syringe (Dipirivan@sup_begin®@sup_end) (group 1, n = 10), or with bottle of generic propofol (group 2, n = 10); inhaled anesthesia with sevoflurane (group 3, n = 10) or isoflurane (end-tidal 0.8-1.2%) (group 4, n = 10). Measurements and main results: No significant differences were found in the demographic data (age, sex and body mass index). There were no differences neither with regard to the duration of anesthesia (100 min [86-110]) (P = 0.24) nor to the time spent in the postoperative care unit (90 min [75-112]) (P = 0.97). There were no significant differences in the cost of non-anesthetics drugs (P = 0.83). Respective total median costs (euros) were: 73.5 [51-74.3] for prefilled syringe of propofol, 34.7 [32.8-38.3] for generic propofol, 32.6 [30.1-37.5] for sevoflurane and 27.6 [26.5-31.9] for isoflurane (P < 0.0001). Cost of general anaesthesia with sevoflurane was not significantly different from those of general anesthesia with target control infusion with generic propofol (P = 0.40). Conclusions: Using propofol and sevoflurane generic significantly reduces cost, leaving such cost close to that of isoflurane's anaesthesia. © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.11.046
Title:Solid lipid nanoparticles for sustained pulmonary delivery of Yuxingcao essential oil: Preparation, characterization and in vivo evaluation
Authors:Y. ZhaoY.-X. ChangX. HuC.-Y. LiuL.-H. QuanY.-H. Liao
Absract:The objective of this study was to prepare solid lipid nanoparticles (SLNs) for sustained pulmonary delivery of Yuxingcao essential oil (YEO). Three YEO loaded SLNs (SLN-200, SLN-400 and SLN-800) with different particle size were prepared and separated following a high-shear homogenization technique using Compritol 888 ATO as lipid and polyvinyl alcohol as an emulsifier. The particle size, zeta potential, drug encapsulation efficiency and drug loading of the SLNs were determined to be between 171 and 812 nm, −17.1 and −19.3 mV, between 76.6 and 90.2% and between 2.34 and 3.12%, respectively whereas the in vitro release data showed that the SLNs led to sustained drug release up to 48 h. In addition, the SLN suspensions after nebulization conferred the fine particle fractions (<5.4 μm) of 67.4–75.8%. Following intratracheal administration to rats, YEO loaded SLNs not only prolonged pulmonary retention up to 24 h, but also increased AUC values (15.4, 18.2 and 26.3 μg/g h for SLN-200, SLN-400 and SLN-800, respectively) by 4.5-7.7 folds compared to the intratracheally dosed YEO solution and by 257–438 folds to the intravenously dosed YEO solution, respectively. The present results were the first to show that YEO loaded SLNs may sustain YEO inhalation delivery and improve local bioavailability, representing a promising inhalable carrier to attain once daily application.

doi:10.4187/respcare.01414
Title:Nebulized corticosteroids in asthma and COPD. An Italian appraisal
Authors:A.S. Melani
Absract:Inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) are the mainstay of anti-inflammatory treatment in subjects with asthma and COPD. This review evaluates the role of nebulizers as an alternative to inhalers for delivering ICSs in asthma and COPD. I selected 16 randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded, longterm studies, mostly carried out in asthma (n = 14) and COPD. Nebulized budesonide has been demonstrated to be effective and safe in children ages 1-8 years, and, with less evidence, in infants and adults with asthma. Other investigations, with the addition of in vitro and in vivo comparison studies, have shown that nebulized beclomethasone, fluticasone, and flunisolide are effective alternatives to nebulized budesonide in asthma and COPD. Efficient delivery of nebulized ICSs requires that the nebulizer system, the nebulized drug formulation, and the inhaling subject interact properly. The practices of mixing nebulized ICSs with bronchodilators and using nebulized ICSs in acute settings are promising, but require further confirmations, and at present cannot be recommended. I conclude that nebulizers may be considered as an effective alternative to inhalers for delivering ICSs and can be recommended to asthmatic and COPD subjects who are unwilling or unable to use inhalers. Newer formulations could possibly offer a relevant advance for a more efficient nebulization of ICSs. © 2012 Daedalus Enterprises.

doi:10.1211/jpp.59.11.0003
Title:Laser-ablated nanofunctional polymers for the formulation of slow-release powders for dry powder inhalers: Physicochemical characterization and slow-release characteristics
Authors:I. CoowanitwongV. AryaG. PatelW.-S. KimV. CraciunJ.R. RoccaR. SinghG. Hochhaus
Absract:Recently, dry powder inhalation (DPI) powders coated with nanometre-thin layers of biodegradable polymers, prepared using pulse laser deposition (PLD), have been evaluated as a slow-release formulation for DPI use, with the goal of improving pulmonary selectivity. This paper describes evaluation of the chemical stability of one potential polymer, poly lactic acid (PLA), during the ablation process, the resulting respirable properties and potential cytotoxicity of coated glucocorticoid powders, and the resulting sustained-release characteristics of PLA-coated glucocorticoids creating using PLD. Triamcinolone acetonide (TA) and budesonide (BUD) were used as two model glucocorticoids to determine pulmonary targeting (PT) in-vivo. The chemical stability of PLA was determined at various laser energy densities. The respirable fraction and the cytotoxicity of the micronized particles of TA and BUD, coated using optimum laser energy density, were determined. In-vitro dissolution profiles were generated for the coated/uncoated formulations and an ex-vivo receptor binding assay was used to determine PT in rats. Increasing laser energy density led to decreases in molecular weight and film density, and increases in degradation products, roughness and thickness of the film. The mean dissolution time of coated formulations of BUD was longer (4 h) than with the less lipophilic TA (2 h). This correlated well with a more pronounced pulmonary selectivity observed for coated BUD ex-vivo. Stability and the physical properties of the film correlated with the laser energy density. We observed a direct relationship between the dissolution rate of the uncoated and coated formulation and the degree of PT; however, physiochemical properties of the drug (e.g. lipophilicity) may also contribute to the improved PT. © 2007 The Authors.

doi:10.1177/1932296819897652
Title:Dance 501 inhaled human insulin: Linear dose response in patients with type 1 diabetes
Authors:E. ZijlstraO. KleinF. SieversL. PorterB. BuecheM.-C. KuoT. LeB.J. StedmanM. RhodesJ.S. Patton
Absract:Objective:Dance 501 is a novel liquid formulation of human insulin for inhalation (INH) with a small handheld aerosol device.In this randomized, 6-period, cross-over trial, INH vs. subcutaneous (s.c.) insulin lispro (LIS) was investigatedduring 10-hour glucose clamps to assess the linearity of total and maximum dose-response and dose-exposure ofINH in non-smoking subjects with type 1 diabetes (T1D).Method:A total of 24 subjects were enrolled (N=9 female, N=15 male; mean ± SD age 44.8 ± 10.2 years; BMI 25.4 ± 2.6kg/m). LIS was injected at low (8 U), medium (16 U) and high (32 U) doses. Comparable INH doses were chosen(61.5, 123 and 245.9 U, respectively), assuming 13% relative biopotency (GREL) based on previous studies.Result:All subjects completed all dose administrations. Dose linearity of INH was demonstrated for total and maximumactivity. Total and maximum exposure of INH increased proportionally from low to medium and from medium tohigh dose. Mean GREL(%) (CV%) of total pharmacodynamic (PD) activity was slightly lower than assumed (8.9(56%), 10.4 (42%) and 12.4 (41%) at low, medium and high dose), which must be considered when comparing PDof INH and LIS, as doses were not equivalent. Median onset of action (minutes) was similar for INH vs LIS at low(29min vs 32min), medium (28min vs 29min) and high dose (25min vs 24.5min). Median onset of appearance was15 minutes for all treatments. No safety issues, no cough, and no changes in FEV1 were observed after dosing.Conclusion:Dance 501 showed a rapid onset of activity, linear pharmacokinetic and PD dose response, and good safety andtolerability. INH may, therefore, become a clinically meaningful alternative to rapid-acting injectable insulins.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.05.060
Title:Development of ciprofloxacin-loaded poly(vinyl alcohol) dry powder formulations for lung delivery
Authors:D.M. SilvaR. PalecoD. TrainiV. Sencadas
Absract:Polymeric microparticles are micro carriers for the sustained drug delivery of drugs in the lungs, used as alternatives to the use of established excipients. This study aims to develop and characterize inhalable ciprofloxacin (CPx)-loaded poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) microparticles by a single-step spray-drying procedure. The optimization of the processing parameters was achieved by an orthogonal design of the most relevant processing parameters (polymer concentration, feed rate and inlet temperature). The obtained spray-dried particles showed a drug encapsulation efficiency higher than 90%. Furthermore, PVA-CPx formulations, with drug contents up to 10 wt%, showed a morphology and size suitable for inhalation, with a sustained release profile over 24 h. Data from Fourier transformed infra-red spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry indicated absence of interaction between the polymer matrix and the drug. Aerodynamic assessment of PVA-CPx 10 wt% was determined by the next generation impactor (NGI), using spray-dried CPx as a control. The results showed improved values of mass median aerodynamic diameter (5.06±0.10μm) and a fine particle fraction (39.78±0.98%) when comparing with the CPx alone (5.33±0.39μm and 30.43±1.38%). This study highlights the potential of spray-dried PVA microparticles as drug carriers for lung local delivery of antibiotics.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.07.013
Title:Inhaled powder formulation of naked siRNA using spray drying technology with L-leucine as dispersion enhancer
Authors:M.Y.T. ChowY. QiuF.F.K. LoH.H.S. LinH.-K. ChanP.C.L. KwokJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of short interfering RNA (siRNA) has been widely studied in both animal and clinical studies to treat various respiratory diseases by gene silencing through RNA interference. Some of these studies showed that the administration of naked siRNA (without the use of any delivery vectors) could achieve satisfactory gene silencing effect, a unique feature to pulmonary delivery. Liquid aerosols were mostly used with very limited studies on the use of powder aerosols for siRNA. In this study, siRNA was co-spray dried with mannitol and L-leucine, the latter being a dispersion enhancer. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that siRNA in its naked form was formulated into an inhalable dry powder using spray drying technology. The aerosol performance of the powder was evaluated by Next Generation Impactor (NGI). The presence of L-leucine in the formulation could improve the aerosolization of siRNA-containing powders. Results from the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) suggested that L-leucine was enriched on the particle surface and promote powder dispersion. Among the different siRNA formulations being examined, the one that contained 50% w/w of L-leucine exhibited the best aerodynamic performance, with a high emitted fraction (EF) of around 80% and a modest fine particle fraction (FPF) of 45%. Importantly, the integrity of siRNA was successfully retained as evaluated by gel retardation assay and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).

doi:10.2147/IJGM.S39134
Title:From inhaler to lung: Clinical implications of the formulations of ciclesonide and other inhaled corticosteroids
Authors:R. NaveH. Muller
Absract:Asthma continues to be a global health problem and currently available treatments such as corticosteroids can cause unwanted side effects. Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are recommended as first-line therapy for reducing airway inflammation and have a distinct advantage over oral preparations as they provide a direct route of delivery to the lungs. However, local deposition of ICS in the oropharynx can lead to oral candidiasis, dysphonia, and pharyngitis. The pharmaceutical quality is a primary concern of any ICS asthma treatment, with a higher quality product resulting in improved efficacy and safety profiles. The particle size distribution and the spray force velocity of an ICS may directly influence lung deposition, and the spray duration of a device is another important factor when coordinating inhalation. Recent advances in ICS device and formulation technology have resulted in significant improvements in the efficacy of available asthma treatments. In particular, hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) solution technology and the development of smaller particle sizes have resulted in the production of new ICS formulations that have the ability to directly target drug delivery to the site of airway inflammation. Both the ICS formulation and the pressurized metered-dose inhaler device used to administer ciclesonide (CIC) HFA have been developed to treat the underlying chronic inflammation associated with asthma. CIC is administered as a prodrug which is activated in the lungs, leading to minimal oropharyngeal deposition. The small particle size of CIC results in the delivery of a high fraction of respirable particles to the small airways of the lungs, resulting in high lung deposition and continual dose consistency. This review summarizes how CIC administered as an HFA formulation is an effective treatment for asthma. © 2013 Nave and Mueller, publisher and licensee Dove Medical Press Ltd.

doi:10.1128/AAC.46.12.3776-3781.2002
Title:Pharmacokinetics and efficacies of liposomal and conventional formulations of tobramycin after intratracheal administration in rats with pulmonary Burkholderia cepacia infection
Authors:J.-F. MarierJ. LavigneM.P. Ducharme
Absract:The objective of the present study was to determine the pharmacokinetics and efficacies of liposomal and conventional formulations of tobramycin against Burkholderia cepacia in a model of chronic lung infection. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were inoculated intratracheally with 10@sup_begin6@sup_end CFU of a very resistant strain of B. cepacia (strain BC 1368; MIC, 128 μg/ml) to establish lung infection. A 1,200-μg dose of tobramycin was administered intratracheally as a liposomal formulation and as a conventional formulation. Rats were anesthetized and exsanguinated by cardiac puncture at different times over 24 h to assess pulmonary tobramycin concentrations and the number of residual CFU. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated by using a two-compartment model with NONMEM. The mean half-life at the β phase (t@sub_begin1/2β@sub_end) and the pulmonary exposure (the area under the concentration-time curve [AUC]) of liposomal tobramycin were 19.7 h (coefficient of variation [CV], 24.2%) and 6,811 μg · h/lungs (CV, 19.7%), respectively. The pharmacokinetics of conventional tobramycin were statistically different, with a t@sub_begin1/2β@sub_end and AUC of 12.9 h (CV, 31.4%) and 821 μg · h/lungs (CV, 15.0%), respectively. Pearson chi-square analyses were performed on residual CFU data distributed in the following categories: < 10@sup_begin3@sup_end, 10@sup_begin3@sup_end to 10@sup_begin5@sup_end, and > 10@sup_begin5@sup_end. Differences in CFU data between formulations showed a statistical trend (P < 0.10) when data from all time points were used, and statistically significant differences were found after 12 h (P < 0.05), with greater eradication achieved with the liposomal formulation. In conclusion, intratracheal administration of tobramycin in liposomes was associated with marked changes in the pharmacokinetics of the drug in the lung and an apparent trend for a prolonged efficacy against B. cepacia. These results support the hypothesis that inhalation of liposomal tobramycin may improve the management of chronic pulmonary infections caused by resistant bacteria in patients with cystic fibrosis.

doi:10.1208/pt020312
Title:Low-temperature micronization of a peptide drug in fluid propellant: Case study cetrorelix
Authors:R. LizioM. DammA.W. SarlikiotisH.H. BauerC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Aim of this study was to elaborate an efficient method for the micronization of the decapeptide cetrorelix (a GnRH-antagonist), in order to obtain a microsuspension as basis for other pharmaceutical preparations, such as e.g. inhalation aerosols. A modified pearl-mill coupled with a cryostat was used for the micronization of cetrorelix in fluid propellant and operated under different conditions. The obtained cetrorelix suspensions were analyzed for particle size distribution, purity of cetrorelix, and for metal contamination through abrasion from parts of the mill. The method allowed an effective micronization of cetrorelix. The mean particle size of the initial cetrorelix lyophilizate bulk ware was reduced from 52.5 μm (Volume Mean Diameter, VMD) down to 14.9, 6.1 and 3.1 μm, respectively, respectively. The HPLC analysis of all cetrorelix suspensions after micronization did not show signs of decomposition as compared to the initial product. The elementary analysis of the suspensions performed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry revealed a negligible amount of contaminants in the suspension (Zr = max. 0.6 ppm; Fe, Cr, Ni, Ba, below limit of quantification, i.e. < 0.14 ppm). The only appreciable contaminant, Aluminum (Al = 1.1 ppm), was derived from the mechanical capping of aluminum canisters prior to analysis. The Zr determination in the suspension of 0.6 ppm, is still considered to be negligible as compared to the legally tolerated limit of air contamination. By low-temperature micronization in fluid propellant, fine drug suspensions of cetrorelix for pMDIs can be directly manufactured in one-step procedure without destruction of the peptide structure and without appreciable product contamination.

doi:10.1007/s10439-016-1710-7
Title:Design and characterization of aerosol drug exposure atmospheres to aid in the development of delivery devices
Authors:B. AsgharianO. PriceJ. SchroeterJ. RodriguezT. Bentley
Absract:INTRODUCTION Local and systemic delivery of drug products via the inhalation route has received increased attention in recent years. Drug delivery by inhalation to target sites within the respiratory tract is fast, non-invasive, efficient, and cost-effective. In addition hepatic first-pass metabolism is avoided, which may potentially bring about undesirable side effects. Despite promises of enhanced therapeutic response, major challenges exist in the way of efficient delivery of inhaled drugs. For local delivery, the respiratory tract geometry serves as a natural barrier to the transport of drugs into the lower tract, which must be remedied by formulating drugs that have the desired aerodynamic properties to allow drug particles to pass through the lung airways and reach the target sites. For systemic delivery, the inhaled systemic dose of the drug depends highly on the deposition sites within the lung, which may have different tissue properties and thicknesses. In addition, drug transport across the capillary walls is compromised by metabolism in lung tissues, which results in reduced availability to the blood. Thus, local and systemic barriers to drug delivery depend mainly on drug product size characteristics and the subject's breathing rates and maneuver. Mechanistic, coupled models of heat and mass transport for the air and inhaled drug products are needed to study the aerodynamic properties of the drug for optimal local and systemic delivery. The transport models should incorporate lung structure and geometry, ventilation patterns, site-specific tissue properties, and drug excipient components. Parametric studies may be conducted for each drug compound to determine the appropriate breathing maneuvers and drug formulation to obtain optimal local and systemic delivery. While the active ingredient has to remain intact within the aerosolized drug products, the excipient may be used in drug formulation for the desired aerodynamic properties to overcome lung barriers to drug delivery. Perfluorocarbon (PFC) liquids are colorless, have high molecular weight and thus high density, low viscosity, low surface tension, and low enthalpy of evaporation. They are immiscible in most organic solvents and water. Due to their unique properties, PFCs have been proposed as excipients for gases and pharmaceutical drug delivery (Lehmler, 2007). PFCs can mix with or form a liquid shell around the active ingredient (drug) to create a two-component droplet mixture. These droplets are then inhaled and transported through the lung. The PFC component of the droplet will then evaporate, thereby changing the aerodynamic properties of the droplet to overcome lung barriers and reach the target site for local and systemic delivery. Deposition of a two-component drug product made up of excipient (PFC) and active ingredient (sildenafil) was calculated in the human respiratory tract. The mechanistic model for the transport and deposition of inhaled inert aerosols-previously developed by Asgharian et al. (2001)-was extended to dropletvapor mixtures in the reconstructed human lung geometry. The lung geometry was based on images of the entire tracheobronchial tree scanned by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL, Richland, WA) and was subsequently converted to a three-dimensional dichotomous airway branching structure. The lung geometry was completed by attaching a 7-generation, typical-path alveolar tree to the distal end of each terminal bronchiole. Lung mechanics was based on uniform expansion and contraction of compliant airways (Yu, 1978). Droplet deposition was found from 1-D formulation of the convectivediffusion equation for aerosol transport in lung airways while undergoing phase change. The influence of various parameters on the delivery of drug droplets within the respiratory tract was studied. MATERIALS AND METHODS Mathematical models for droplet phase change and transport were developed and coupled with the transport equations for vapor in the human respiratory tract. The PFC in the droplets served as a means to adjust physicochemical properties of airborne droplets, control the behavior, and target deposition sites within the respiratory tract for drug delivery. Liquid-vapor conversion (phase change) for the PFC component of the droplet is governed by the diffusion principle according to Maxwell's relation (Fukata and Walter, 1970). The droplet phase change was adjusted for the presence of the drug and Kelvin (curvature) effects and is given by where m is the mass of the particle, q is the overall density of the drug product, D is the vapor diffusion coefficient, and C is the vapor concentration far away (1) from and on the surface (d) of the particle. Vapor concentration and, hence, droplet mass depend on particle and air temperatures. As a result, the energy equation for the droplet and mass transport equations for the vapor constituents are needed to be developed and solved simultaneously with equation (1). Droplet temperature (T) is found from the solution of the energy equation given by in which c is the specific heat, L is the enthalpy of evaporation, and ka and Ta are thermal conductivity and temperature of air, respectively. The mass transport equation for vapor PFC is given by The last term on the right hand side of equation (3) corresponds to the mass exchanged between the droplet and vapor phases. Vapor exchange also depends on the number concentration (Cp) of droplets in the air given by equation (4). where D@sub_beginp@sub_end is the particle diffusion coefficient, and λCp is the flux of particles lost to the walls per unit time per unit area. Equations (1)-(4) were solved to determine the mass of each component in the drug particles, the final size for drug particles traveling and depositing on airway surfaces, and PFC vapor and droplet concentration throughout the respiratory tract. Droplet deposition fraction was calculated as the number of droplet deposited in each airway divided by the total number of inhaled droplets. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The deposition of PFC-drug droplets in the respiratory tract depends on several parameters such as the physicochemical properties of the PFC-drug droplets, dimensions and shape of the droplets, PFC-to-drug mass fraction (MF), saturation ratio (SR) of PFC in the inhaled air, and subject's respiratory tract geometry structure and dimensions, volume, and breathing parameters. These parameters may be individually or collectively adjusted in drug formulation to target the intended dose to desired sites and regions of the respiratory tract. Calculations in this study used sildenafil as the drug dissolved in different PFC carriers. Presented below are the influences of various parameters on regional deposition of droplets from which conclusions can be drawn regarding the efficient and optimum delivery of drugs. The mixture of PFC drug product may contain both particulate and PFC vapor phases. The presence of PFC vapor serves as the barrier to droplet evaporation. The higher the vapor concentration (saturation ratio), the lower the droplet evaporation will be. Droplet growth will occur when the air is fully saturated. Figure 1 gives the deposition fraction of inhaled particles at a fixed initial MF of 0.5 but varying initial SR ranging from 0 (no vapor in the air) to 1 (fully saturated vapor in the air). Since drug products are typically in the coarse size range, model predictions were made at droplet diameters from 1 μm to 10 μm. Model predictions indicated that initial PFC vapor saturation ratio, droplet diameter, and lung regional filtering effects combined to determine the deposition amount and site in the lung. When there was no vapor in the air, droplet evaporation in the oral cavity caused a decrease in droplet diameter. As a result, inertial impaction of droplets in the oral cavity decreased with decreasing the saturation ratio (Fig. 1, top left panel). Consequently, more droplets penetrated the tracheobronchial (TB) region with decreasing the SR. However, deposition fraction in the TB region was due to the combined effects of the oral cavity filtering effect and strength of inertial deposition of the TB region (Fig. 1, top right panel). As a result there was no direct relationship between droplet deposition and droplet initial size. Deposition fraction was higher at higher saturation ratios but decreased with increasing particle diameter. The same patterns appeared to persist in the alveolar (A) region (Fig. 1, bottom left panel). Alveolar deposition decreased with increasing SR for droplet diameters larger than 3 μm. The magnitude of deposition was higher in the TB region than that in the A region because of the coarse droplet sizes of the simulations. As a result, the deposition pattern in the lower respiratory tract (LRT = TB + A) resembled that of the TB region (Fig. 1, bottom right panel). Similar findings can be obtained by varying other parameters such as MF and breathing profile. CONCLUSIONS A mathematical model for the transport and deposition of excipient-drug mixture was developed and used to calculate the deposited dose and site in the human respiratory tract. Parameters such as initial droplet size, PFC mass fraction, PFC saturation vapor pressure and breathing profile directly influenced droplet deposition. Model predictions indicated the feasibility of targeting drug delivery to desired sites in the lung by adjusting these parameters.(Figure Presented).

doi:10.3390/ijms21124357
Title:Modeling the effect of composition on formation of aerosolized nanoemulsion system encapsulating docetaxel and curcumin using d-optimal mixture experimental design
Authors:A.A. AsmawiN. SalimE. AbdulmalekM.B.A. Rahman
Absract:The synergistic anticancer effect of docetaxel (DTX) and curcumin (CCM) has emerged as an attractive therapeutic candidate for lung cancer treatment. However, the lack of optimal bioavailability because of high toxicity, low stability, and poor solubility has limited their clinical success. Given this, an aerosolized nanoemulsion system for pulmonary delivery is recommended to mitigate these drawbacks. In this study, DTX-and CCM-loaded nanoemulsions were optimized using the D-optimal mixture experimental design (MED). The effect of nanoemulsion compositions towards two response variables, namely, particle size and aerosol size, was studied. The optimized formulations for both DTX-and CCM-loaded nanoemulsions were determined, and their physicochemical and aerodynamic properties were evaluated as well. The MED models achieved the optimum formulation for DTX-and CCM-loaded nanoemulsions containing a 6.0 wt% mixture of palm kernel oil ester (PKOE) and safflower seed oils (1:1), 2.5 wt% of lecithin, 2.0 wt% mixture of Tween 85 and Span 85 (9:1), and 2.5 wt% of glycerol in the aqueous phase. The actual values of the optimized formulations were in line with the predicted values obtained from the MED, and they exhibited desirable attributes of physicochemical and aerodynamic properties for inhalation therapy. Thus, the optimized formulations have potential use as a drug delivery system for a pulmonary application.

doi:10.1248/yakushi.131.1271
Title:Drug discovery by formulation design and innovative drug delivery systems (DDS)
Authors:H. Okada
Absract:This review describes studies on drug discovery using a rational formulation design and innovative, drug delivery systems (DDS) for biomaterials such as therapeutic peptides and nucleotides. The microcapsules of the LH-RH superagonist leuprorelin acetate prepared using the new in-water drying method and biodegradable polymers, such as PLGA and PLA, could achieve a long-term sustained release for 1-6 months thereby facilitating easily treatment of hormonedependent diseases, prostate cancer, endometriosis, and precocious puberty. This DDS technology showed an improvement in patient QOL and highly promoted the clinical value of the agonist. Moreover, PLGA microcapsules of siRNAs against VEGF, cFLIP, Raf-1, and Int6 have also been developed to treat various cancers and arteriosclerosis obliterans. To develop therapeutic nucleotides, a particle design is created using functional peptides, such as cell penetrating peptides (CPP), nuclear localizing signals (NLS), tight junction reversible openers (AT1002), bombesin, and dynein light chain-associated sequences. siRNA use should lead to a paradigm shift in drug discovery against various diseases. Tat analog with NLS could enhance the potency of a vaginal DNA vaccine. The artificial Tat CPP of STR-CH@sub_begin2@sub_endR@sub_begin4@sub_endH@sub_begin2@sub_endC synthesized in our laboratory could efficiently deliver siRNAs into many types of cells and enhance the therapeutic effects for treating sarcoma, atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, and asthma by intratumor injection and inhalation of the nanoparticles. Tat and AT1002 analogs used to treat atopic dermatitis in mice increased cell membrane permeability to siRelA, a siRNA against a subclass of NF-kB, and exhibited striking therapeutic and preventive effects. © 2011 The Pharmaceutical Society of Japan.

doi:10.1586/17446651.2.3.313
Title:Inhaled insulin: A clinical perspective with emphasis on EXUBERA®
Authors:P. Norwood
Absract:There is a Type 2 diabetes epidemic; however, unfortunately, even though insulin is an effective therapy, it is mostly used late and as a last resort. Type 1 diabetics find it difficult to administer extra insulin injections when needed owing to the inconvenience and, although most cope well, many dislike injecting themselves so frequently. The newly approved EXUBERA® inhaled insulin should help counteract the resistance of patients and physicians in instituting insulin in the Type 2 diabetic, and the Type 1 diabetic can take more than 1000 fewer injections per year, making their diabetes easier to live with. Pulmonary function tests have demonstrated clinically insignificant changes after years of monitoring. The increases of insulin antibodies found in those who use inhaled insulin have not affected diabetes control. Side effects of inhaled insulin are insignificantly different from injectable insulin except for a couple of mild coughs after an inhalation, which decrease quickly with time. The two dosage forms of EXUBERA insulin are 1 and 3 mg (equivalent to approximately 3 and 8 U of U-100 insulin, respectively), are adaptable to most regimens for both types of diabetes, and inhaled insulin is preferred by a significant majority of patients. Inhaled insulin should be cost effective if it allows earlier institution in the Type 2 diabetic thus improving diabetic control and lowering the expensive complications of diabetes. © 2007 Future Drugs Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2016.03.031
Title:Pulmonary liposomal formulations encapsulated procaterol hydrochloride by a remote loading method achieve sustained release and extended pharmacological effects
Authors:K. TaharaH. TomidaY. ItoS. TachikawaR. OnoderaH. TanakaY. TozukaH. Takeuchi
Absract:Drug inhalation provides localized drug therapy for respiratory diseases. However, the therapeutic efficacy of inhaled drugs is limited by rapid clearance from the lungs. Small hydrophilic compounds have short half-lives to systemic absorption. We developed a liposomal formulation as a sustained-release strategy for pulmonary delivery of procaterol hydrochloride (PRO), a short-acting pulmonary β2-agonist for asthma treatment. After PRO-loaded liposomes were prepared using a pH gradient (remote loading) method, 100-nm liposomes improved residence times of PRO in the lungs. PRO encapsulation efficiency and release profiles were examined by screening several liposomal formulations of lipid, cholesterol, and inner phase. Although PRO loading was not achieved using the conventional hydration method, PRO encapsulation efficiency was >60% using the pH gradient method. PRO release from liposomes was sustained for several hours depending on liposomal composition. The liposomal formulation effects on the PRO behavior in rat lungs were evaluated following pulmonary administration in vivo. Sustained PRO release was achieved using simplified egg phosphatidylcholine (EPC)/cholesterol (8/1) liposome in vitro, and greater PRO remnants were observed in rat lungs following pulmonary administration. Extended pharmacological PRO effects were observed for 120 min in a histamine-induced bronchoconstriction guinea pig model. We indicated the simplified EPC/cholesterol liposome potential as a controlled-release PRO carrier for pulmonary administration.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2012.01.026
Title:Dry powder inhalers of gentamicin and leucine: Formulation parameters, aerosol performance and in vitro toxicity on CuFi1 cells
Authors:R.P. AquinoL. ProtaG. AuriemmaA. SantoroT. MencheriniG. ColomboP. Russo
Absract:The high hygroscopicity of gentamicin (G) as raw material hampers the production of respirable particles during aerosol generation and prevents its direct use as powder for inhalation in patients suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). Therefore, this research aimed to design a new dry powder formulation of G studying dispersibility properties of an aminoacid, l-leucine (leu), and appropriate process conditions. Spray-dried powders were characterized as to water uptake, particle size distribution, morphology and stability, in correlation with process parameters. Aerodynamic properties were analyzed both by Single Stage Glass Impinger and Andersen Cascade Impactor. Moreover, the potential cytotoxicity on bronchial epithelial cells bearing a CFTR F508/F508 mutant genotype (CuFi1) were tested. Results indicated that leu may improve the aerosol performance of G-dried powders. The maximum fine particle fraction (FPF) of about 58.3% was obtained when water/isopropyl alcohol 7:3 system and 15-20% (w/w) of leu were used, compared to a FPF value of 13.4% for neat G-dried powders. The enhancement of aerosol efficiency was credited both to the improvement of the powder flowability, caused by the dispersibility enhancer (aminoacid), and to the modification of the particle surface due to the influence of the organic co-solvent on drying process. No significant degradation of the dry powder was observed up to 6 months of storage. Moreover, particle engineering did not affect either the cell viability or cell proliferation of CuFi1 over a 24 h period. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1183/09031936.03.00045902
Title:Protection against methacholine-induced bronchospasm: Salbutamol pMDI versus Clickhaler® DPI
Authors:M.T. NewhouseP. PatelM. Parry-Billings
Absract:Passive dry-powder inhalers (DPIs) have been developed as an alternative to pressurised metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) to improve aerosol delivery on inhalation and eliminate the need for propellants. However, new DPI formulations of generic drugs must be rigorously compared with conventional pMDI therapy. This randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, seven-way crossover study evaluated bronchoprotection from methacholine challenge in order to compare a novel salbutamol DPI (Clickhaler®) with a reference salbutamol pMDI (Ventolin®). Adult asthma patients with airway hyperresponsiveness to methacholine (provocative concentration of methacholine causing a 20% fall in the forced expiratory volume in one second (PC20) <4 mg·mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) were treated on separate days with 0, 100, 200 or 400 μg of salbutamol via the DPI or pMDI. Methacholine challenge was performed before and after salbutamol treatment and the PC20 ratios analysed by Finney's bioassay to test for therapeutic equivalence of the inhalers. Eighteen patients completed the study and showed significant dose-related responses to salbutamol. The relative potency of DPI:pMDI was 1.29 (90% confidence interval 1.04-1.63). There were no treatment differences in safety (cardiac frequency, blood pressure, adverse events). Methacholine-challenge methodology provides a sensitive bioassay and has demonstrated therapeutic equivalence of the salbutamol Clickhaler® dry-powder inhaler with the conventional salbutamol pressurised metered-dose inhaler.

doi:10.1186/rr58
Title:The lung as a route for systemic delivery of therapeutic proteins and peptides
Authors:R.U. AguM.I. UgwokeM. ArmandR. KingetN. Verbeke
Absract:The large surface area, good vascularization, immense capacity for solute exchange and ultra-thinness of the alveolar epithelium are unique features of the lung that can facilitate systemic delivery via pulmonary administration of peptides and proteins. Physical and biochemical barriers, lack of optimal dosage forms and delivery devices limit the systemic delivery of biotherapeutic agents by inhalation. Current efforts to overcome these difficulties in order to deliver metabolic hormones (insulin, calcitonin, thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH], follicle-stimulating hormone [FSH] and growth hormones) systemically, to induce systemic responses (immunoglobulins, cyclosporin A [CsA], recombinant-methionyl human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor [r-huG-CSF], pancreatic islet autoantigen) and to modulate other biological processes via the lung are reviewed. Safety aspects of pulmonary peptide and protein administration are also discussed.

doi:10.1211/0022357001777342
Title:The effects of carrier size and morphology on the dispersion of salbutamol sulphate after aerosolization at different flow rates
Authors:X.M. ZengG.P. MartinC. MarriottJ. Pritchard
Absract:We have investigated the interdependence of various factors (particle size, surface smoothness, carrier particle shape, inhalation flow rate) on the deposition of a model drug (salbutamol sulphate) after aerosolization from a model inhaler device (Rotahaler). Different batches of α-lactose monohydrate were prepared to have different particle size, particle shape and surface smoothness. Each batch of lactose was then mixed separately with salbutamol sulphate in a ratio of 67.5:1 (w/w), under similar conditions. Drug deposition from each formulation was investigated using a 4-stage liquid impinger after aerosolization at 28.3, 60.0 and 96.0 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end via a Rotahaler. At a flow rate of 28.3 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end, a large portion of drug particle was not emitted from the inhaler, the % emission varying from 29.6% to 66.6% for all formulations investigated. Drug emission tended to increase with particle size of the carrier whilst fine particle fraction, fine particle dose and dispersibility appeared to increase with decreasing particle size but increasing elongation ratio of the carrier particles. Increasing the flow rate to 60.0 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end was shown to increase drug emission since > 75% total dose was found to be emitted from the inhaler. Again, smaller or more elongated lactose particles resulted in a higher fine particle dose or fine particle fraction of salbutamol sulphate than the coarser carrier, although they produced a similar (analysis of variance P>0.05) drug emission. Increasing the flow rate to 96.0 L min@sup_begin-1@sup_end did not increase drug emission. Increasing the flow rate resulted in an increase in the fine particle fraction and fine particle dose of salbutamol sulphate from all formulations. The flow rate of the airstream appeared to play the most important role, followed by particle size and elongation ratio of the carrier particles, with the surface smoothness relatively less significant in determining the deposition of salbutamol sulphate from the Rotahaler.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12100939
Title:Development of liposomal vesicles for osimertinib delivery to egfr mutation—positive lung cancer cells
Authors:P. Skupin-MrugalskaT. Minko
Absract:Osimertinib (OSI, AZD9291), is a third-generation, irreversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) that selectively inhibits both EGFR-TKI–sensitizing and EGFR T790M resistance mutations. OSI has been approved as a first-line treatment of EGFR-mutant lung cancer and for metastatic EGFR T790M-mutant non-small cell lung cancer. Liposome-based delivery of OSI can provide a new formulation of the drug that can be administered via alternative delivery routes (intravenous, inhalation). In this manuscript, we report for the first time development and characterization of liposomal OSI formulations with diameters of ca. 115 nm. Vesicles were composed of phosphatidylcholines with various saturation and carbon chain lengths, cholesterol and pegylated phosphoethanolamine. Liposomes were loaded with OSI passively, resulting in a drug being dissolved in the phospholipid matrix or actively via remote-loading leading to the formation of OSI precipitate in the liposomal core. Remotely loaded liposomes were characterized by nearly 100% entrapment efficacy and represent a depot of OSI. Passively-loaded vesicles released OSI following the Peppas-Sahlin model, in a mechanism combining drug diffusion and liposome relaxation. OSI-loaded liposomes composed of l-α-phosphatidylcholine (egg-PC) demonstrated a higher toxicity in non-small lung cancer cells with EGFR T790M resistance mutation (H-1975) when compared with free OSI. Developed OSI formulations did not show antiproliferative activity in vitro in healthy lung epithelial cells (MRC-5) without the EGFR mutation.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12040387
Title:Control of the lung residence time of highly permeable molecules after nebulization: Example of the fluoroquinolones
Authors:J. BrillaultF. Tewes
Absract:Pulmonary drug delivery is a promising strategy to treat lung infectious disease as it allows for a high local drug concentration and low systemic side effects. This is particularly true for low-permeability drugs, such as tobramycin or colistin, that penetrate the lung at a low rate after systemic administration and greatly benefit from lung administration in terms of the local drug concentration. However, for relatively high-permeable drugs, such as fluoroquinolones (FQs), the rate of absorption is so high that the pulmonary administration has no therapeutic advantage compared to systemic or oral administration. Formulation strategies have thus been developed to decrease the absorption rate and increase FQs’ residence time in the lung after inhalation. In the present review, some of these strategies, which generally consist of either decreasing the lung epithelium permeability or decreasing the release rate of FQs into the epithelial lining fluid after lung deposition, are presented in regards to their clinical aspects.

doi:10.3390/ijms20082005
Title:Inhaled cisplatin for NSCLC: Facts and results
Authors:C. KosmidisK. SapalidisP. ZarogoulidisC. SardeliC. KoulourisD. GiannakidisE. PavlidisA. KatsaounisN. MichalopoulosS. MantalobasG. KoimtzisV. AlexandrouT. TsioudaA. AmanitiI. Kesisoglou
Absract:Although we have new diagnostic tools for non-small cell lung cancer, diagnosis is still made in advanced stages of the disease. However, novel treatments are being introduced in the market and new ones are being developed. Targeted therapies and immunotherapy have brought about a bloom in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Still we have to find ways to administer drugs in a more efficient and safe method. In the current review, we will focus on the administration of inhaled cisplatin based on published data.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2016.1309
Title:Dry Powder Inhaler Delivery of Tobramycin in In Vitro Models of Tracheostomized Children
Authors:W.B. WeeS. TaverniniA.R. MartinI. AmiravC. MajaesicW.H. Finlay
Absract:Background: Pediatric tracheostomies are not uncommon and aerosols allow for targeted lung therapy. However, there is little literature that quantifies aerosol delivery through tracheostomies. Nebulizers are commonly used in delivering tobramycin, but there are drawbacks, for example, time burden. Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) can deliver higher payloads in less time. However, no data exist assessing DPIs with tracheostomies. Objective: The study's aim was to quantify the amount of aerosolized tobramycin delivered to the lungs of in vitro tracheostomized spontaneously breathing pediatric models with the TOBI@sup_begin®@sup_end Podhaler™ (Podhaler) and the PARI LC Plus@sup_begin®@sup_end (LC Plus). Methods: In vitro tracheostomized models of a 6- and 12-year-old trachea were created. Tobramycin aerosol was delivered to the models using either the LC Plus or Podhaler and captured on a filter at the trachea's distal end. A colorimetric tobramycin assay was used to quantify the amount. Three devices of each type were tested in triplicate to ensure repeatability. Results: A total of 36 runs were completed and showed that the Podhaler was more efficient compared with the LC Plus. Mass and percentage of nominal dose, mean ± standard deviation (LC Plus vs. Podhaler with single capsule), was 72.4 ± 11.1 mg (24.1% ± 3.7%) versus 24.2 ± 2.4 mg (86.6% ± 8.7%); p < 0.001. Conclusions: The study's results show that the Podhaler was significantly more efficient compared with the LC Plus, and three Podhaler capsules delivered approximately the same amount of drug as the Tobramycin inhalation solution. These results suggest that Podhaler's tobramycin delivery is a feasible option in tracheostomized pediatric patients and a clinical study is warranted.

doi:10.1007/BF03256681
Title:Improving drug delivery in paediatric medicine
Authors:J. KrauseJ. Breitkreutz
Absract:A major challenge in drug development is paediatric drug delivery; however, the problems associated with drug administration in this population are manifold. Because of the highly heterogeneous nature of the patient group, ranging from newborns to adolescents, there is a need to use suitable excipients and dosage forms for different age groups and suitable delivery devices for certain formulations. So far, there is a lack of suitable and safe drug formulations for children, especially for the very young and seriously ill. This review provides an overview of current advances in the field of paediatric drug delivery and the challenges that still need to be overcome. With the new EU legislation, which will enforce paediatric clinical trials and drug development, there will be an increased need for more research in to novel paediatric dosage forms. There is also the basic need to further investigate the suitability of dosage forms for different age groups. Current advances in paediatric drug development include interesting new drug delivery concepts such as fast-dissolving drug formulations, including buccal films and wafers, and multiparticulate dosage forms. Parenteral administration is likely to remain the first choice for children in the neonatal period and for emergency cases. Alternative routes of administration also under investigation include transdermal, pulmonary and nasal drug delivery systems. A few products are already available on the market, but others are still under development and will need further investigation and clinical proof. © 2008 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.toxrep.2021.03.034
Title:Toxicology of alcohol-based hand rubs formulated with technical-grade ethanol
Authors:T.J. TseS.K. PurdyJ. ShenF.B. NelsonR. MustafaD.J. WiensM.J.T. Reaney
Absract:Alcohol-based hand rubs (ABHRs) formulated with technical-grade ethanol were temporarily permitted in Canada and the U.S beginning April 2020 to meet the current demand due to COVID-19. ABHRs formulated with technical-grade ethanol are low risk for general use. In this review, we discuss the toxicity of common contaminants found in technical-grade ethanol, as well as contaminants that may have been introduced into the products during formulation and packaging of ABHRs. Although primary route of exposure is via dermal absorption and inhalation, there have been reported elevated concerns regarding to ingestion of ABHRs. Overall, the highest risks were associated with methanol (for its toxicity), ethyl acetate (skin defattening), and acetaldehyde (carcinogenic and teratogenic). For these reasons Health Canada and the United States Food and Drug Administration have issued recalls on products containing some of these contaminants. More vigilant policing by regulatory agencies and general product users are required to ensure compliance, safety, and efficacy of these new products, as demand continue to rise during this unprecedented pandemic.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.ab02.abstracts
Title:Repurposing gallium for local treatment of p. aeruginosa lung infections through sustained-release dry powders for inhalation
Authors:G. CostabileR. ProvenzanoE. MitidieriD. VisaggioI. D'AngeloR.D. Di Villa BiancaF. QuagliaE. FrangipaniP. ViscaR. SorrentinoF. Ungaro
Absract:Gallium, or Ga(III), is a drug already used for cancer-related hypercalcemia, which may function as a “Trojan horse” to substitute Fe(III) in iron-containing enzymes, ultimately repressing their essential activity for bacterial growth. The potential of intra-venous gallium to disrupt bacterial iron metabolism and to exert a therapeutic effect was recently demonstrated in a murine model of P. aeruginosa lung infection and in cystic fibrosis (CF) sufferers. To overcome limitations of systemic administration, we developed novel Ga(III) inhalable nano-embedded microparticles (NEM) for the treatment of P. aeruginosa infections in CF. Ga(III) was efficiently encapsulated into hyaluronic acid/chitosan nanoparticles (Ga-HA/CS NPs). To gain access to the static mucus and biofilm surrounding P. aeruginosa, size and surface properties of Ga-HA/CS NPs were tuned acting on formulation conditions. Finally, to allow in vivo lung deposition, Ga- HA/CS NPs were efficiently engineered into mannitol-based micron-scale powders (Ga-Man NEM). The powders showed high and homogeneous Ga(III) content, optimal in vitro aerosol performance, sustained release kinetics in lung lining fluids and good in vitro antimicrobial properties. Upon intratracheal insufflation of Ga-Man NEM in an in vivo animal model, improved Ga(III) persistence at lungs and reduction of its kidney distribution (the target organ of the adverse effect) were achieved as compared to both intravenous and intratracheal Ga(III) solutions.

doi:10.1080/10717544.2018.1435748
Title:Pulmonary delivery of influenza vaccine formulations in cotton rats: Site of deposition plays a minor role in the protective efficacy against clinical isolate of H1N1pdm virus
Authors:Y. BhideJ. TomarW. DongJ. de Vries-IdemaH.W. FrijlinkA. HuckriedeW.L.J. Hinrichs
Absract:Administration of influenza vaccines to the lungs could be an attractive alternative to conventional parenteral administration. In this study, we investigated the deposition site of pulmonary delivered liquid and powder influenza vaccine formulations and its relation to their immunogenicity and protective efficacy. In vivo deposition studies in cotton rats revealed that, the powder formulation was mainly deposited in the trachea (∼65%) whereas the liquid was homogenously distributed throughout the lungs (∼96%). In addition, only 60% of the antigen in the powder formulation was deposited in the respiratory tract with respect to the liquid formulation. Immunogenicity studies showed that pulmonary delivered liquid and powder influenza formulations induced robust systemic and mucosal immune responses (significantly higher by liquids than by powders). When challenged with a clinical isolate of homologous H1N1pdm virus, all animals pulmonary administered with placebo had detectable virus in their lungs one day post challenge. In contrast, none of the vaccinated animals had detectable lung virus titers, except for two out of eight animals from the powder immunized group. Also, pulmonary vaccinated animals showed no or little signs of infection like increase in breathing frequency or weight loss upon challenge as compared to animals from the negative control group. In conclusion, immune responses induced by liquid formulation were significantly higher than responses induced by powder formulation, but the overall protective efficacy of both formulations was comparable. Thus, pulmonary immunization is capable of inducing protective immunity and the site of antigen deposition seems to be of minor relevance in inducing protection.

doi:10.1007/s11095-013-0975-x
Title:Rapid vaccination using an acetalated dextran microparticulate subunit vaccine confers protection against triplicate challenge by bacillus anthracis
Authors:K.L. SchullyS. SharmaK.J. PeineJ. PesceM.A. ElbersonM.E. FonsecaA.M. ProutyM.G. BellH. BortehM. GallovicE.M. BachelderA. Keane-MyersK.M. Ainslie
Absract:Purpose: A rapid immune response is required to prevent death from Anthrax, caused by Bacillus anthracis. Method: We formulated a vaccine carrier comprised of acetalated dextran microparticles encapsulating recombinant protective antigen (rPA) and resiquimod (a toll-like receptor 7/8 agonist). Results: We were able to protect against triplicate lethal challenge by vaccinating twice (Days 0, 7) and then aggressively challenging on Days 14, 21, 28. A significantly higher level of antibodies was generated by day 14 with the encapsulated group compared to the conventional rPA and alum group. Antibodies produced by the co-encapsulated group were only weakly-neutralizing in toxin neutralization; however, survival was not dependent on toxin neutralization, as all vaccine formulations survived all challenges except control groups. Post-mortem culture swabs taken from the hearts of vaccinated groups that did not produce significant neutralizing titers failed to grow B. anthracis. Conclusions: Results indicate that protective antibodies are not required for rapid protection; indeed, cytokine results indicate that T cell protection may play a role in protection from anthrax. We report the first instance of use of a particulate carrier to generate a rapid protective immunity against anthrax. © 2013 Springer Science+Business Media New York.

doi:10.2165/00137696-200503020-00004
Title:Carriers in drug powder delivery: Implications for inhalation system design
Authors:H.D.C. SmythA.J. Hickey
Absract:The performance of dry powder inhaler (DPI) systems depends on the design of the powder formulation, the dose-metering system, and the device used to disperse the powder as an aerosol. Multiple factors associated with drug and carrier particles are known to influence dry powder performance. Elucidation of a mechanistic understanding of particulate system properties and how these relate to powder performance and the disruption of inter-particulate forces that cause aggregation has not yet been achieved. However, the complexity of interactions within dry powder formulations has not restricted research in this area. Various strategies of overcoming inter-particulate forces have been devised, ranging from active inhaler designs to powder engineering approaches. The influence of the interactive carrier system's physicochemical properties (i.e. size, shape, chemical properties, surface roughness, electrostatics, humidity, and ternary excipients) on the performance of carrier-based systems has been examined extensively in the literature. In addition, matrix carriers, which contain drug and functional excipients for promotion of powder performance, control of pharmacokinetics, stability, controlled release of active drug and enhanced control of drug targeting, have also been investigated. Both the interactive carrier and matrix carrier approaches are attempts to develop DPI systems that perform as device-independent formulations and/or provide patient-independent delivery (controlled carrier systems). It seems likely that the future of DPI systems will combine both of these strategies with future developments in device design (formulation independency). © 2005 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1089/08942680152484180
Title:Respiratory deposition patterns of salbutamol pMDI with CFC and HFA-134a formulations in a human airway replica
Authors:Y.S. ChengC.S. FuD. YazzieY. Zhou
Absract:This paper describes a technique that uses a well-defined human airway replica and gamma counting as a standard method for evaluating and comparing the performance of medical inhalers and spacers. High-fidelity replicas reproduced as needed from master casts made from human cadavers include the oropharyngeal cavity, larynx, trachea, and five to nine generations of bronchi. Deposition in the small airways and alveoli region of the cast is simulated by material that passes through the upstream airways and is collected on foam filters. Deposition patterns in the respiratory tract replica were obtained by using radiolabel in the medical inhaler and by gamma scintigraphy. This technique was used to determine respiratory deposition patterns of salbutamol in a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI) with chlorofluorocarbon (CFC, in-house formulation) and HFA-134 formulations (Proventil hydrofluoroalkane [HFA]). At an inspiration flow of 30 L/min, patterns in the salbutamol/CFC formula showed a high deposition in the oropharyngeal airway (78%) and a 16% deposition in the lung, similar to in vivo measurements reported in the literature. However, the salbutamol/HFA formula showed lower oral deposition (56%) but higher lung deposition (24%). The difference in the oral deposition patterns may be attributed to lower initial spray velocity, initial droplet evaporation rate, and possibly initial droplet sizes of Proventil HFA. The small orifice diameter (0.25 mm) of the Proventil HFA actuator produced a softer plume with a smaller impact force, resulting in lower oropharyngeal deposition. Cascade impactor measurements showed similar aerodynamic particle size distribution of the CFC and HFA formulations. We also showed that using spacers in the Proventil HFA resulted in a lower oropharyngeal deposition and higher lung deposition, indicating beneficial effects. Comparison of oropharyngeal deposition and those predicted by artificial throats used in the impactor measurements showed that, in general, the artificial throat predicted a lower deposition.

doi:10.3390/ph14020171
Title:Cannabis‐based oral formulations for medical purposes: Preparation, quality and stability
Authors:F. BarattaM. SimieleI. PignataL.R. EnriA. D’avolioR. TortaA. De LucaM. CollinoP. Brusa
Absract:Current legislation in Italy provides that medical Cannabis may be administered orally or by inhalation. One of the fundamental criteria for the administration of oral formulations is that they deliver a known consistent quantity of the active ingredients to ensure uniform therapies leading to the optimisation of the risks/benefits. In 2018, our group developed an improved Cannabis oil extraction technique. The objective of the present work was to carry out a stability study for the oil extracts obtained by this method. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the consumption of the prescribed medical Cannabis therapy by patients, a standard procedure was defined for the preparation of a single‐dose preparation for oral use (hard capsules) containing the oil extract; thereafter, the quality and stability were evaluated. The hard capsules loaded with the oil extract were analysed and found to be uniform in content. The encapsulation process did not alter the quantity of the active molecule present in the oil. The stability tests yielded excellent results. Since the capsule dosage form is easily transported and administered, has pleasant organoleptic properties and is stable at room temperature for extended periods of time, this would facilitate the adherence to therapy by patients in treatment.

doi:10.1016/j.apsb.2019.05.003
Title:Pulmonary immunization: deposition site is of minor relevance for influenza vaccination but deep lung deposition is crucial for hepatitis B vaccination
Authors:J. TomarW.F. TonnisH.P. PatilA.H. de boerP. HagedoornR. VanbeverH.W. FrijlinkW.L.J. Hinrichs
Absract:Vaccination via the pulmonary route could be an attractive alternative to parenteral administration. Research towards the best site of antigen deposition within the lungs to induce optimal immune responses has conflicting results which might be dependent on the type of vaccine and/or its physical state. Therefore, in this study, we explored whether deep lung deposition is crucial for two different vaccines, i.e., influenza and hepatitis B vaccine. In view of this, influenza subunit vaccine and hepatitis B surface antigen were labeled with a fluorescent dye and then spray-dried. Imaging data showed that after pulmonary administration to mice the powders were deposited in the trachea/central airways when a commercially available insufflator was used while deep lung deposition was achieved when an in-house built aerosol generator was used. Immunogenicity studies revealed that comparable immune responses were induced upon trachea/central airways or deep lung targeting of dry influenza vaccine formulations. However, for hepatitis B vaccine, no immune responses were induced by trachea/central airways deposition whereas they were considerable after deep lung deposition. Thus, we conclude that deep lung targeting is not a critical parameter for the efficacy of pulmonary administered influenza vaccine whereas for hepatitis B vaccine it is.

doi:10.1186/2008-2231-22-50
Title:Formulation of inhalable lipid-based salbutamol sulfate microparticles by spray drying technique
Authors:Z. DamanK. GilaniA. Rouholamini NajafabadiH.R. EftekhariM.A. Barghi
Absract:Background: The aim of this work was to develop dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations of salbutamol sulfate (SS) by the aid of solid lipid microparticles (SLmPs), composed of biocompatible phospholipids or cholesterol. Methods. The SLmPs were prepared by using two different solvent systems (ethanol and water-ethanol) and lipid carriers (dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) and cholesterol) with/without L-leucine in the spray drying process. The spray-dried microparticles were physically-mixed with coarse lactose monohydrate in order to make our final DPI formulations and were investigated in terms of physical characteristics as well as in vitro drug release profile and aerosolization behavior. Results: We observed significant differences in the sizes, morphologies, and in vitro pulmonary depositions between the formulations. In particular, the SS-containing SLmPs prepared with water-ethanol (30:70 v/v) solution of DPPC and L-leucine which had then been blended with coarse lactose (1:9 w/w) exhibited the highest emitted dose (87.9%) and fine particle fraction (42.7%) among the formulations. In vitro drug release study indicated that despite of having a significant initial burst release for both cholesterol and DPPC-based microparticles, the remained drug released more slowly than the pure drug. Conclusion: This study demonstrated the potential of using lipid carriers as well as L-leucine in DPI formulations of SS to improve its aerosolization behavior and retard the release profile of the drug. © 2014 Daman et al.; licensee BioMed Central Ltd.

doi:10.1002/bit.23046
Title:Mannitol-Guided delivery of ciprofloxacin in artificial cystic fibrosis mucus model
Authors:Y. YangM.D. TsifanskyS. ShinQ. LinY. Yeo
Absract:Abnormal airway mucus presents a significant challenge for inhalational drug delivery. Recognizing the thick and tenacious airway mucus seen in the cystic fibrosis (CF) patients as a critical barrier to effective drug delivery, both into the mucus layer itself as well as across that layer to the underlying airway epithelium, we hypothesize that mannitol or NaCl can form inhalable drug carriers, improve drug penetration into the mucus, and ultimately enhance the drug's therapeutic effect. The objective of this study is to test whether mannitol and NaCl particles, as inhalable drug carriers, improve drug delivery into and enhance a drug's activity within a mucus-like material. Microparticles containing Ciprofloxacin (Cipro), an active ingredient, and either mannitol or NaCl were produced by spray-drying. Cipro encapsulated in mannitol particles (Cipro-mannitol) was significantly more effective at killing Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) grown in artificial mucus (AM) than Cipro encapsulated in either NaCl particles (Cipro-NaCl) or in hydrophobic particles consisting of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), albumin, and lactose (Cipro-DAL). The relatively high antibacterial effectiveness of Cipro-mannitol was not due to the effect of mannitol on bacteria or on Cipro. Rather, the unique performance of the mannitol-based particles in AM is attributable to its ability to increase local water content in the AM and enhance drug penetration into it. Mannitol is a promising excipient for inhalable microparticles that facilitate the drug delivery into the CF mucus. © 2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.1345/aph.17426
Title:Evaluating the delivery of nebulized and metered-dose inhalers in an in vitro infant ventilator lung model
Authors:M.L. AventP. GalJ.L. RansomY.L. BrownC.J. HansenW.A. RickettsF. Soza
Absract:OBJECTIVE: To evaluate drag delivery to the lungs of nebulized and metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) in an in vitro infant lung model. METHODS: An in vitro lung model was modified to study drug delivery. A 1000 mL intravenous bag filled with 500 mL deionized water was attached to a 3.5 mm (12 cm length) endotracheal tube. An inline Marquest Whisper Jet infant circuit nebulizer system delivered 2.5 mg/3 mL albuterol sulfate inhalation solution (Ventolin nebules) at a flow rate of 5 L/min. An Aerochamber (Monaghan) was placed at the endotracheal tube for the delivery of the MDIs. Albuterol MDI (Ventolin) 10 inhalations and beclomethasone MDI (Beclovent) 20 inhalations were delivered. A Servo 900C (Siemens-Elma) was used at the following ventilator settings: positive inspiratory pressure 30 cm H@sub_begin2@sub_endO), intermittent mandatory ventilation 40 breaths/min, positive end expiratory pressure 4 cm H@sub_begin2@sub_endO, inspiratory time 0.4 sec. Each formulation was run at least 10 times and assayed in duplicate by HPLC. An unpaired Student's t-test was used to analyze the statistical significance of the data. RESULTS: There was a significantly greater percentage of drug delivery with MDI albuterol (1.96 ± 0.50) as compared with nebulized albuterol (1.26 ± 0.37) (p = 0.002) or beclomethasone diproprionate (0.51 ± 0.24) (p = 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Albuterol MDI provides a more efficient delivery of drug to the lung as compared with nebulized albuterol and MDI beclomethasone diproprionate.

doi:10.1016/j.jfma.2020.05.028
Title:Treatment for Mycobacterium abscessus complex–lung disease
Authors:Y.-W. WengC.-K. HuangC.-L. SyK.-S. WuH.-C. TsaiS.S.-J. Lee
Absract:Nontuberculous mycobacterial infections and colonization are becoming more prevalent worldwide. Mycobacterium abscessus complex (MABC) is one of the predominant pathogens capable of a wide spectrum of infections, with 50% of infections involving the lungs. The decision to commence treatment is determined according to the severity of the disease, risk of progressive disease, presence of comorbidities, and goals of treatment. MABC is resistant to standard antituberculous agents and has variable drug susceptibility across different geographical locations, therefore, antibiotic susceptibility testing of all clinically significant isolates is crucial for selecting a treatment strategy. Pulmonary infections due to MABC is difficult to cure using the currently recommended regimens from the American Thoracic Society and British Thoracic Society. Macrolides are the cornerstone of treatment, but the efficacy of macrolide-based chemotherapy may be compromised by resistance. Despite the introduction of new drugs for treatment, treatment outcomes remain unsatisfactory. The combination of surgical resection of limited lung disease regions with a multidrug, macrolide-based therapy offers the optimal chance of achieving clinical cure of the disease. This review focuses on medical treatment of MABC–lung disease and the efficacy of new agents, such as clofazimine, amikacin inhalation therapy, tigecycline and linezolid, for treating MABC–lung disease.

doi:10.1517/14656566.2012.711319
Title:MAP0004: Dihydroergotamine mesylate inhalation aerosol for acute treatment of migraine
Authors:S. Silberstein
Absract:Introduction: Dihydroergotamine mesylate (DHE) has been used as an acute migraine treatment since 1945, although tolerability with intravenous administration has limited its use. MAP0004 is a novel, orally inhaled, aerosol formulation of DHE that provides pulmonary drug delivery using a pressurized, metered dose inhaler for rapid absorption through lung alveoli. MAP0004 was developed to provide the anti-migraine efficacy of DHE, with fewer systemic effects than intravenous dosing. Areas covered: This review discusses available literature describing the pharmacokinetics, tolerability and efficacy of MAP0004, including data from Phase II and Phase III clinical trials. Expert opinion: MAP0004 aerosol DHE provides desirable activation of 5-HT1B/D receptors, resulting in effective anti-migraine effects. Unlike intravenous DHE, MAP0004 is less likely to bind with other serotonergic, adrenergic and dopaminergic receptors, resulting in fewer unwanted side effects. In addition, MAP0004 is less arterioconstrictive than intravenous DHE. Both Phase II and III clinical trials support anti-migraine efficacy with superior tolerability with MAP0004 compared with intravenous DHE. Inhaled rather than intravenous administration should also improve patient acceptance. These data support the future use of MAP0004 as a first-line acute migraine treatment. © 2012 Informa UK, Ltd.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2010.0855
Title:Development of an inhaled dry-powder formulation of tobramycin using pulmosphere™ technology
Authors:D.E. GellerJ. WeersS. Heuerding
Absract:At present, the only approved inhaled antipseudomonal antibiotics for chronic pulmonary infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) are nebulized solutions. However, prolonged administration and cleaning times, high administration frequency, and cumbersome delivery technologies with nebulizers add to the high treatment burden in this patient population. PulmoSphere™ technology is an emulsion-based spray-drying process that enables the production of light porous particle, dry-powder formulations, which exhibit improved flow and dispersion from passive dry powder inhalers. This review explores the fundamental characteristics of PulmoSphere technology, focusing on the development of a dry powder formulation of tobramycin for the treatment of chronic pulmonary Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa) infection in CF patients. This dry powder formulation provides substantially improved intrapulmonary deposition efficiency, faster delivery, and more convenient administration over nebulized formulations. The availability of more efficient and convenient treatment options may improve treatment compliance, and thereby therapeutic outcomes in CF. © 2011 Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2010.11.002
Title:Formation, characterization, and fate of inhaled drug nanoparticles
Authors:J. ZhangL. WuH.-K. ChanW. Watanabe
Absract:Nanoparticles bring many benefits to pulmonary drug delivery applications, especially for systemic delivery and drugs with poor solubility. They have recently been explored in pressurized metered dose inhaler, nebulizer, and dry powder inhaler applications, mostly in polymeric forms. This article presents a review of processes that have been used to generate pure (non polymeric) drug nanoparticles, methods for characterizing the particles/formulations, their in-vitro and in-vivo performances, and the fate of inhaled nanoparticles. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1046/j.1464-5491.2003.01076.x
Title:Alternative routes of insulin delivery
Authors:D.R. OwensB. ZinmanG. Bolli
Absract:Attempts at replicating physiological insulin secretion, as a means of restoring the normal metabolic milieu and thereby minimizing the risk of diabetic complications, has become an essential feature of insulin treatment. However, despite advances in the production, purification, formulation and methods of delivery of insulin which have occurred in recent years, this has met with limited success. The current advocacy of intensive insulin therapy regimens involving multiple daily subcutaneous injection places a heavy burden of compliance on patients and has prompted interest in developing alternative, less invasive routes of delivery. To date, attempts to exploit the nasal, oral, gastrointestinal and transdermal routes have been mainly unsuccessful. The respiratory tree, with a large surface area, offers the greatest potential for the delivery of polypeptide drugs and there is renewed interest in administrating insulin by the intrapulmonary route. Current pulmonary drug delivery systems include a variety of pressurized metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers, nebulizers and aqueous mist inhalers. Recent clinical studies suggest a possible role for inhaled insulin in fulfilling meal-related insulin requirements in persons with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Most experience with inhaled insulin has been obtained using either dry powder formulation in the Nektar Pulmonary Inhaler/Exubera device (Nektar Therapeutics Inc., San Carlos, CA, Aventis, Bridgewater, NJ, Pfizer, NY) or a liquid aerosol formulation in the AERx® Insulin Diabetes Management System (Aradigm Corp., Hayward, CA, NovoNordisk A/S, Copenhagen, Denmark). If long-term safety and efficacy is confirmed, inhalation may become the first non-subcutaneous route of insulin administration for widespread clinical use. Despite overwhelming interest and investment in administering insulin via the oral route, success is not expected in the short term. Attempts at utilizing the buccal mucosa and skin are also continuing. Pancreatic transplantation will remain limited to those patients receiving a kidney transplant and immunotherapy. Islet cell transplantation is at an early though encouraging stage following the availability of new less toxic immunosuppressive agents. True insulin independence will require further advances in the combined fields of cell biology and genetics to ensure freedom from both the need for lifelong administration of insulin and the complications of diabetes. © 2003 Diabetes UK.

doi:10.1089/08942680152484162
Title:Aerosol characterization of nebulized intranasal glucocorticoid formulations
Authors:A. BerlinskiJ.C. Waldrep
Absract:Inhaled glucocorticoids (GCs) are the mainstay of long-term therapy for asthma. The lack of suitable preparations in the United States has induced clinicians to use intranasal (IN) GC formulations as "nebulizer suspensions" for off-label therapy. However, no data are available regarding aerosol production and characteristics. The aim of this study was to characterize drug outputs and aerodynamic profiles of four nebulized IN GC formulations with further analysis of flunisolide (Flu), and to test the influence of different delivery system/formulation combinations. The aerodynamic profiles and drug outputs were determined by impaction and chemical analysis. The solution output was determined by the gravimetric technique. Triamcinole acetonide (TAA), fluticasone propionate (Flut), beclomethasone dipropionate (Bec), and Flu (550, 500, 840, and 250 μg, respectively) diluted to 4 mL with saline solution were tested with the Sidestream (SID) and Aero-Tech II (AT2) nebulizers. Subsequently, Flu was tested with four additional nebulizers (Pari LC + [PARI] Acorn II, Hudson T Up-draft II, and Raindrop). All the aerosols were heterodisperse and had a particle size range optimal for peripheral airway deposition (1.85 to 3.67 μm). Flu had the highest drug output in the respirable range (22.8 and 20.3 μg/min with the AT and SID, respectively). Flu was 5-11 times more efficiently nebulized than the other formulations tested. No differences were detected in the solution outputs (0.25 to 0.3 mL/min). In subsequent testing of Flu, the PARI, AT, and SID showed the best performances. The LC+ achieved the highest drug and solution output (27.4 μg/min and 0.89 mL/min, respectively). In conclusion, Flu showed the best aerosol performance characteristics. These data do not endorse the off-label utilization of nebulized IN GC, but underscores the importance of in vitro testing before selecting any formulation/nebulizer combinations for clinical use.

doi:10.1183/13993003.congress-2020.3246
Title:Comparison of a dry powder inhaler (DPI) to a pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) formulation of extra fine beclomethasonedipropionate/formoterol fumarate/glycopyrronium bromide (BDP/FF/GB) in patients with COPD: The TRI-D study
Authors:K.M. BeehP. KunaI. ViaudA. GuasconiM. CorradiG. Georges
Absract:Introduction: A DPI formulation (NEXThaler®) of the extra fine BDP/FF/GB triple therapy has been developed as an alternative to pMDI to meet patients' preference and to provide treatment options. Aims and Objectives: To demonstrate the non-inferiority of the DPI versus pMDI formulations of extra fine BDP/FF/GB on lung function. Methods: TRI-D was a, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active controlled, 3-way cross-over trial comparing 4 weeks of treatment with BDP/FF/GB 100/6/12.5 ug DPI and pMDI and BDP/FF 100/6 ug pMDI each delivered as 2 inhalations bid, separated by 2-week wash-outs in patients with stable, moderate-to-severe COPD. The co-primary efficacy endpoints were the change from baseline in FEV1 AUC0-12h normalised by time and in trough FEV1 at 24 hours on Day 28. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were collected. Results: 366 patients were randomized. Non-inferiority of BDP/FF/GB DPI vs pMDI was demonstrated for both co-primary endpoints, with the lower limits of confidence interval of the adjusted mean differences falling above the non-inferiority threshold of-50 mL (-35 mL and -15 ml-). Both DPI and pMDI triple therapies significantly improved FEV1 AUC0-12h vs BDP/FF pMDI by 85 and 105 mL, respectively (p <0.001). TEAEs occurred in 15.2%, 18.7% and 15.4% of patients on BDP/FF/GB DPI, pMDI, and BDP/FF pMDI. Conclusion: DPI and pMDI formulations of extra fine BDP/FF/GB demonstrated similar efficacy and safety in patients with COPD supporting the new DPI formulation as a valid option for both patient and physician.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119169
Title:3D printed opioid medicines with alcohol-resistant and abuse-deterrent properties
Authors:J.J. OngA. AwadA. MartoranaS. GaisfordE. StoyanovA.W. BasitA. Goyanes
Absract:In the past decade, prescriptions for opioid medicines have been exponentially increasing, instigating opioid abuse as a global health crisis associated with high morbidity and mortality. In particular, diversion from the intended mode of opioid administration, such as injecting and snorting the opioid, is a major problem that contributes to this epidemic. In light of this, novel formulation strategies are needed to support efforts in reducing the prevalence and risks of opioid abuse. Here, modified release tramadol printlets (3D printed tablets) with alcohol-resistant and abuse-deterrent properties were prepared by direct powder extrusion three-dimensional (3D) printing. The printlets were fabricated using two grades of hydroxypropylcellulose (HPC). Both formulations displayed strong ethanol-resistance and had moderate abuse-deterrent properties. Polyethylene oxide (PEO) was subsequently added into the formulations, which improved the printlets’ resistance to physical tampering in nasal inhalation tests and delayed their dissolution in solvent extraction tests. Overall, this article reports for the first time the use of direct powder extrusion 3D printing to prepare drug products with both alcohol-resistant and abuse-deterrent properties. These results offer a novel approach for the safe and effective use of opioids that can contribute to the advantages that 3D printing provides in terms of on-demand dose personalisation.

doi:10.2147/NDT.S147633
Title:Profile of inhaled levodopa and its potential in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease: Evidence to date
Authors:A.B. PatelJ. Jimenez-Shahed
Absract:Inhaled levodopa is a newly emerging therapeutic option in the treatment of “off ” symptoms associated with Parkinson’s disease (PD). Its mode of delivery offers more rapid absorption of levodopa and shorter onset of clinical benefit compared to oral formulations, and has been shown to be feasible for use in patients with PD experiencing worse motor function due to declining plasma levodopa levels. Clinical development of this compound is supported by preclinical, Phase I–III, long-term-safety studies and studies in special populations, including otherwise-healthy asthmatics and smokers. These investigations demonstrated that the drug is well tolerated without risk of long-term (up to 1 year) changes in pulmonary function or spirom-etry measures. The most common side effects among PD patients were a mild cough, upper respiratory tract infection, nausea, sputum discoloration, and dyskinesia. Inhaled levodopa offers a different administration method and side-effect profile from the currently available options for rescue therapy for Off periods in PD, though comparative studies have not been performed. The drug is presently under review by the US Food and Drug Administration.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2012.11.005
Title:Capreomycin supergenerics for pulmonary tuberculosis treatment: Preparation, in vitro, and in vivo characterization
Authors:A. SchoubbenP. BlasiM.L. MarenzoniL. BarberiniS. GiovagnoliC. CirottoM. Ricci
Absract:The pulmonary route is one of the main strategies investigated to improve tuberculosis therapy. The aim of this study was to develop a simple and scalable method to produce capreomycin inhalable powders to use as supergeneric. In vitro antimycobacterial activity and in vivo acute toxicity were assessed using agar proportion susceptibility test on Mycobacterium tuberculosis and chicken chorioallantoic membrane assay, respectively. Capreomycin and three different hydrophobic counterions, namely oleate, linoleate, and linolenate, were combined in solution to obtain hydrophobic ion-pairs that were successively spray-dried. Ion-pairing efficiency was influenced by the spray-dryer employed to produce the powder. In the case of capreomycin oleate, both instruments, mini and nano spray-dryer, were suitable to maintain a high ion-paired content, while for capreomycin linoleate and linolenate, mini spray-dryer was the most appropriate instrument. The three formulations showed morphology and particle sizes potentially suitable for inhalation. Capreomycin oleate and linoleate showed the same efficacy of capreomycin sulfate against M. tuberculosis, while capreomycin linolenate showed a reduced efficacy, even though strain growth was inhibited at 10@sup_begin-4@sup_end mycobacterial inoculum. In vivo acute toxicity studies evidenced the lowest toxic potential for capreomycin oleate when compared to the single components or the other two salts. Overall, capreomycin oleate seems to possess the most promising characteristics to be used as supergenerics in pulmonary tuberculosis treatment. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1185/030079906X167381
Title:Effect of inhaled insulin on patient-reported outcomes and treatment preference in patients with type 1 diabetes
Authors:R.P. HayesD. MuchmoreJ. Schmitke
Absract:Objective: To compare patient-reported outcomes and treatment preference between preprandial inhaled insulin and preprandial subcutaneous (SC) insulin in the context of a clinical trial of crossover design with a primary objective of comparing HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end between groups. Research design and methods: Multi-center, randomized, open-label, two-arm crossover trial conducted in the US and Canada with two 12-week periods comparing preference between preprandial human insulin inhalation powder (HIIP; AIR† inhaled insulin) and preprandial SC insulin (regular human insulin or insulin lispro) in patients with type 1 diabetes. Patients received HIIP plus insulin glargine during period 1 and SC insulin plus insulin glargine during period 2, or the reverse sequence. Main outcome measures: SF-36 Vitality Subscale, Diabetes Symptom Checklist-Revised subscales, Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire, Insulin Delivery System Questionnaire, HIIP-specific questionnaire, preference question. Results: Of 137 patients entered, 119 completed the study (54% female, mean age 40.9 ± 12.4 years, mean HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end 8.1 ± 1.0%). Patients had significantly greater treatment satisfaction and more positive evaluation of their insulin delivery system (easier to control blood sugar, less lifestyle impact) with HIIP than with SC insulin (all p < 0.01). Patients preferring HIIP (80%) were significantly more confident about (p = 0.005) and comfortable with (p = 0.003) using the system than those preferring SC insulin. Results may not be generalizable to all patients with type 1 diabetes. Conclusions: Some patients desire alternatives to insulin injection. In this study 80% preferred HIIP to injected insulin. Other patients feel more comfortable with familiar insulin delivery. Healthcare providers should help patients find insulin delivery that corresponds to individual preferences. © 2007 Librapharm Limited.

doi:10.1358/dot.2006.42.6.985632
Title:Noninjectable methods of insulin administration
Authors:S. CerneaI. Raz
Absract:Optimal glycemic control is essential for the prevention of diabetes-related complications, and the intensive insulin regimens that best resemble physiological insulin secretion are most likely to attain it. However, there are many limitations that preclude the early use of insulin by patients with type 2 diabetes or wider implementation of the intensive regimens in type 1 diabetes. More acceptable alternative routes of insulin administration and effective, noninvasive, patient-friendly delivery systems that alleviate the burden of insulin injections have been researched over the years. To date, only pulmonary inhalation of insulin has become a feasible alternative; it has proved to be as effective and well tolerated as the subcutaneously injected regular insulin and it has a pharmacodynamic profile well suited for mealtime insulin therapy. Several pulmonary insulin delivery systems are in different stages of development, and one (Exubera®, Nektar Therapeutics/Pfizer Inc.-Sanofi-Aventis Group) has already become clinically available in the United States and Europe for patients with diabetes. Other noninjectable methods of insulin administration are reviewed. © 2006 Prous Science. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2146/ajhp040249
Title:Inhaled insulin for diabetes mellitus
Authors:T.K. Mandal
Absract:Purpose. Pharmacokinetic and safety data related to the use of inhaled insulin for the management of diabetes mellitus are discussed. The various pulmonary insulin delivery systems under development are also reviewed. Summary. Several pharmaceutical companies are developing pulmonary insulin delivery systems. These products fall into two main groups: solution and drug powder formulations, which are delivered through different patented inhaler systems. Exubera, a rapid-acting insulin in powder form, has been studied extensively in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The AERx Insulin Diabetes Management System delivers a liquid form of human insulin. Preliminary data indicate that patients converting from insulin injections to this system showed higher compliance to therapy, demonstrated by improved glycemic control. Other pulmonary insulin delivery systems, including ProMaxx, AIR, Spiros, and Technosphere, are also under investigation. In humans, inhaled regular insulin is more rapidly absorbed than insulin from the subcutaneous injection site. The efficiency of inhaled insulin is lower than that of subcutaneous injection because pulmonary delivery of insulin involves some loss of drug within the inhaler or mouth during inhalation. A concern of many clinicians is the possibility of long-term effects from the intraalveolar deposition of insulin within the lung, since insulin is known to have growth-promoting properties. The long-term safety of these products has not been established. Conclusion. Several inhaled insulin products are under development. If these products receive marketing approval, the pulmonary delivery of insulin may offer patients with diabetes an alternative to repeated insulin injections. Copyright © 2005, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics12100922
Title:Defining a regulatory strategy for ATMP/aerosol delivery device combinations in the treatment of respiratory disease
Authors:N. WoodsR. Macloughlin
Absract:Advanced Therapeutic Medicinal Products (ATMP) are a heterogenous group of investi-gational medicinal products at the forefront of innovative therapies with direct applicability in respiratory diseases. ATMPs include, but are not limited to, stem cells, their secretome, or extracellular vesicles, and each have shown some potential when delivered topically within the lung. This review focuses on that subset of ATMPs. One key mode of delivery that has enabling potential in ATMP validation is aerosol-mediated delivery. The selection of the most appropriate aerosol generator technology is influenced by several key factors, including formulation, patient type, patient inter-vention, and healthcare economics. The aerosol-mediated delivery of ATMPs has shown promise for the treatment of both chronic and acute respiratory disease in pre-clinical and clinical trials; however, in order for these ATMP device combinations to translate from the bench through to com-mercialization, they must meet the requirements set out by the various global regulatory bodies. In this review, we detail the potential for ATMP utility in the lungs and propose the nebulization of ATMPs as a viable route of administration in certain circumstances. Further, we provide insight to the current regulatory guidance for nascent ATMP device combination product development within the EU and US.

doi:10.2174/1389557520666200509235945
Title:Nano-strategies for improving the bioavailability of inhaled pharmaceutical formulations
Authors:Y. XingP. LuZ. XueC. LiangB. ZhangD. KebebeH. LiuZ. Liu
Absract:Pulmonary pharmaceutical formulations are targeted for the treatment of respiratory diseas-es. However, their application is limited due to the physiological characteristics of the lungs, such as branching structure, mucociliary and macrophages, as well as certain properties of the drugs like particle size and solubility. Nano-formulations can ameliorate particle sizes and improve drug solubility to enhance bioavailability in the lungs. The nano-formulations for lungs reviewed in this article can be classified into nanocarriers, no-carrier-added nanosuspensions and polymer-drug conjugates. Compared with conventional inhalation preparations, these novel pulmonary pharmaceutical formulations have their own advantages, such as increasing drug solubility for better absorption and less inflammatory reaction caused by the aggregation of insoluble drugs; prolonging pulmonary retention time and reducing drug clearance; improving the patient compliance by avoiding multiple repeated administra-tions. This review will provide the reader with some background information for pulmonary drug delivery and give an overview of the existing literature about nano-formulations for pulmonary application to explore nano-strategies for improving the bioavailability of pulmonary pharmaceutical formula-tions.

doi:10.1183/1393003.congress-2017.PA2377
Title:Inhalation of dry powder INS1009 (DP-INS1009) does not activate the cough reflex in guinea pigs: A comparison with nebulized treprostinil
Authors:M. CorbozR. ChapmanA. PlauntH. GauaniV. MalininW. PerkinsC. BuoteC. LaurentD. SalvailH. HinZ. Li
Absract:Introduction: Inhaled treprostinil (TRE) is used in the US to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension but is often associated with cough. Recently we found that a nebulized hexadecyl-treprostinil (C16TR) prodrug in a lipid nanoparticle, which provided prolonged pulmonary vasodilation in animals, evoked no cough in guinea pigs. We have now made a dry powder inhaled version of that formulation (DP-INS1009) that has comparable lung and plasma PK. Here we provide data on the effect of DP-INS1009 on cough. Aim: To evaluate inhaled DP-INS1009 on cough in guinea pigs. Methods: Guinea pigs were placed in a whole body plethysmograph and exposed to nebulized phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and TRE for 10 min and to dry powder lactose (DP-L) and DP-INS1009 for 15 min. Coughs were detected by visual observations and plethysmograph recordings. Drug doses were calculated based on aerosol concentrations of TRE and C16TR collected on a filter. Results: Exposure to inhaled TRE (1.2 μg/kg) produced cough (n=4) with a total of 53 ± 11 coughs. Inhaled TRE at 3.3 μg/kg (n=5) produced no further increase in cough (50 ± 6 coughs). No cough was observed after inhaled TRE (?0.3 μg/kg, n=4) and PBS (n=10). In contrast, inhaled DP-L (n=5) and DP-INS1009 (3.8-17.3 μg/kg, treprostinil equivalent, n=5) did not induce cough (zero coughs). Conclusions: DP-INS1009 does not activate the cough reflex in guinea pigs at a dose up to 14-fold higher than inhaled nebulized TRE. Similar results have been previously found with nebulized INS1009 in guinea pigs and suggest that INS 1009 would be less likely to cause cough than inhaled TRE.

pui:365065706
Title:Approaches and devices used in pulmonary drug delivery system: A review
Authors:H.H. GangurdeM.A. ChordiyaN.S. BasteS. TamizharasiC.D. Upasani
Absract:Targeting drug delivery into the lungs has become one of the most important aspects of systemic or local drug delivery. Consequently, in the last few years, techniques and new drug delivery devices intended to deliver drugs into the lungs have been widely developed. Currently, the main drug targeting regimens include direct application of a drug into the lungs, mostly by inhalation therapy using either pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDI) or dry powder inhalers (DPI). Intratracheal administration is commonly used as a first approach in lung drug delivery in vivo. To convey a sufficient dose of drug to the lungs, suitable drug carriers are required. These can be solid, liquid, or gaseous excipients. Liposomes, nano and microparticles, cyclodextrins, microemulsions, micelles, suspensions, or solutions are all examples of this type of pharmaceutical carrier that have been successfully used to target drugs into lungs. The use of micro reservoir type systems offers clear advantages, such as high loading capacity and possibility of controlling size and permeability, and thus of controlling the release kinetics of the drugs from the carrier systems. These systems make it possible to use relatively small numbers of vector molecules to deliver substantial amounts of a drug to the target. This review discusses the approaches and devices required to be administer drug into the lungs.

doi:10.1212/wnl.62.6_suppl_4.s22
Title:Other formulations and future considerations for apomorphine for subcutaneous injection therapy
Authors:W. KollerM. Stacy
Absract:This manuscript reviews apomorphine administration in formulations other than intermittent bolus injection, and comments on other potential uses for this unique compound. Continuous sc apomorphine therapy has been shown to alter peak-dose dyskinesia thresholds in advancing patients, and in some instances may replace all other anti-parkinson therapies. In general continuous infusion of sc apomorphine at a rate of 4 mg/h is well tolerated, and has been postulated to be equivalent to approximately 600 mg levodopa/day. This therapy is associated with skin complications, particularly nodule formation, and focal panniculitis is seen in more than 50% of subjects. Optimal dosages for intranasal apomorphine range from 2 to 5 mg per inhalation with benefit seen at 7.5 minutes and duration of effect of 45 to 55 minutes. Side effects included nasal irritation, vestibulitis, dyskinesias, yawning, and nausea. Comparison of 3 mg sc and 30 mg sublingual apomorphine in 9 Parkinson's disease subjects in a blinded cross-over trial found that the time to peak benefit was beyond 40 minutes with sl apomorphine, compared to 21 minutes in the sc preparation. Chronic use of the sublingual formulation was associated with severe stomatitis in half the subjects, and markedly limited the treatment. Rectal administration of apomorphine has been evaluated in limited, usually post-operative settings. Administration of a 200 mg apomorphine rectal suppository resulted in an average time to benefit of 32 minutes with an average duration of 195 minutes. Sedation, nausea and faintness were reported as side effects. Although the diagnostic confirmation potential of this agent has been questioned, the drug may have an important role in evaluating the potential for benefit in the deep brain stimulation surgical setting.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13081254
Title:Roflumilast powders for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: Formulation design and the influence of device, inhalation flow rate, and storage relative humidity on aerosolization
Authors:M.A.M. MominB.R. AdhikariS. SinhaI. LarsonS.C. Das
Absract:Roflumilast is currently administered orally to control acute exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, side effects such as gastrointestinal disturbance and weight loss have limited its application. This work aimed to develop an inhalable roflumilast formulation to reduce the dose and potentially circumvent the associated toxicity. Roflumilast was cospray-dried with trehalose and L-leucine with varied feed concentrations and spray-gas flow rates to produce the desired dry powder. A Next-Generation Impactor (NGI) was used to assess the aerosolization efficiency. In addition, different devices (Aerolizer, Rotahaler, and Handihaler) and flow rates were used to investigate their effects on the aerosolization efficiency. A cytotoxicity assay was also performed. The powders produced under optimized conditions were partially amorphous and had low moisture content. The powders showed good dispersibility, as evident by the high emitted dose (>88%) and fine particle fraction (>52%). At all flow rates (≥30 L/min), the Aerolizer offered the best aerosolization. The formulation exhibited stable aerosolization after storage at 25 °C / 15% Relative Humidity (RH) for one month. Moreover, the formulation was non-toxic to alve-olar basal epithelial cells. A potential inhalable roflumilast formulation including L-leucine and tre-halose has been developed for the treatment of COPD. This study also suggests that the choice of device is crucial to achieve the desired aerosol performance.

doi:10.2174/1567201817666200530201820
Title:Development of sustained release oseltamivir phosphate dry powder inhaler: In-vitro characterization and in-vivo toxicological studies
Authors:H. SahastrabudheP. KenjaleV. Pokharkar
Absract:Background: Oseltamivir Phosphate (OP) is an ethyl ester prodrug prescribed for the treatment of influenza virus infection. Current marketed formulations of OP have been observed to be supplemented with an adverse effect during post-marketing surveillance. These prerequisites are sufficed by developing a sustained release Dry Powder for Inhalation (DPI). Objective: The objective of the present study was to develop OP-DPI by an innovative formulation approach comprising of Immediate (IR) and Sustained (SR) Release portions. Methods: DPI formulation comprising IR and SR portions were prepared by spray drying technique using Hydroxy Propyl Methyl Cellulose (HPMC) as the rate-controlling polymer for SR portion. The spray-dried product was further characterized for various pharmaco-technical, in-vitro and in-vivo parameters. Results: OP-DPI showed a burst release of 49% within 15 min further sustaining the drug release up to 9 hrs. The in-vitro aerodynamic performance of OP-DPI showed maximum deposition at stage 3 and Fine Particle Dose (FPD) of 1.08 mg indicating deposition in the upper respiratory tract. Solid-state characterization by DSC and XRD indicated the partial amorphization of OP due to spray drying. Invivo toxicological examination revealed no sign of inflammation, indicating the safety of the developed formulation. Accelerated stability study as per ICH guidelines displayed no significant change in the solid-state characterization and drug-related performance of OP-DPI. Conclusion: Prepared novel and scalable OP-DPI may have the potential to overcome the problems associated with existing marketed dosage forms of OP. Further, localized drug delivery of the antiviral drug through the pulmonary route might be clinically beneficial in controlling the viral proliferation.

doi:10.2147/TCRM.S103709
Title:Use of ICS/LABA (extra-fine and non-extra-fine) in elderly asthmatics
Authors:A. BenfanteM. BasileS. BattagliaM. SpataforaN. Scichilone
Absract:Age represents an exclusion criterion in randomized clinical trials designed to test the efficacy and safety of inhaled drugs in asthma. As a consequence, data on efficacy and safety of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) combinations in elderly asthmatics are scanty. Older age is associated with an increased proportion of comorbid conditions; in addition, all organ functions undergo a process of senescence, thus reducing their ability to metabolize the agents. Overall, these age-associated conditions may variably, and often unpredictably, affect the metabolism and excretion of respiratory drugs. However, pharmacological treatment of asthma does not follow specific recommendations in the elderly. In the elderly, the ICS/LABA combinations may carry an increased risk of local indesiderable effects, primarily due to the lack of coordination between activation of the device and inhalation, and systemic adverse events, mainly due to the greater amount of active drug that is available because of the age-associated changes in organ functions as well as drug-to-drug and drug-to-concomitant disease interactions. The extra-fine formulations of ICSs/LABAs, which allow for a more favorable drug deposition in the lungs at a reduced dose, may contribute to overcome this issue. This review revises the efficacy and safety of treatment with ICSs/LABAs, focusing on the main pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of the drugs and highlighting the potential risks in the elderly asthmatic population.

doi:10.22159/ajpcr.2016.v9s2.11814
Title:Formulation, optimization, and characterization of biocompatible inhalable d-cycloserine-loaded alginate-chitosan nanoparticles for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:J. ShajiM. Shaikh
Absract:Objective: To prepare Nanoparticulate dosage form having improved drug bioavailability and reduced dosing frequency of antitubercular drugs which will helps in improving patient compliance in the treatment of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). Methods: Ionotropic gelation method was used to prepare D-cycloserine (D-CS)-loaded alginate-chitosan nanoparticles, and the particles are characterized by their particle size and morphology using particle size analyzer and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). X-ray diffraction (XRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and Fourier-transformed infrared (FTIR) studies were used to determine drug-polymer interactions and drug entrapment. Entrapment efficiency, drug loading (DL), particle size, and zeta potential of nanoparticles were also studied. The 2@sup_begin3@sup_end factorial designs of experiments by Design-Expert ® V9 were used to optimize the particle size and entrapment efficiency of nanoparticles. Results: The optimized batch had shown the entrapment efficiency of 98.10±0.24% and DL of 69.32±0.44% with particle size and zeta potential as 344±5 nm and -42±11.40 mV, respectively. DSC, FTIR, and XRD studies confirmed the drug entrapment within nanoparticle matrix. SEM results showed spherical-shaped particles. Sustained release of drug from the nanoparticles was observed for 24 hrs period. Respirable fraction up to 52.37±0.7% demonstrates the formulation suitability for deep lung delivery. Lung inflammatory study showed a less inflammatory response. Conclusion: Ionotropic gelation method can be used to prepare biocompatible particles with a high entrapment efficiency, DL, optimum particle size, and controlled release characteristics, which can serve as a convenient delivery system for D-CS and could be a potential alternative to the existing conventional therapy in MDR-TB.

doi:10.1002/phar.1555
Title:Inhaled technosphere insulin: A novel delivery system and formulation for the treatment of types 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus
Authors:A.J. KuglerK.L. FabbioD.Q. PhamD.A. Nadeau
Absract:Complications from uncontrolled diabetes mellitus were reduced significantly with the introduction of insulin more than 90 years ago. Despite the proven benefits of normal glycemic levels, patients are deterred by the inconvenience and perceived pain related to multiple daily subcutaneous insulin injections. Inhaled insulin was first approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2006, but because profit margins did not achieve expectations, the drug manufacturer discontinued sales 2 years later. The second-generation inhaled insulin, developed with Technosphere technology, received FDA approval in 2014. The pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, drug interactions, clinical safety and efficacy, patient satisfaction, dosage and administration, warnings, precautions, contraindications, adverse effects, and place in therapy of inhaled Technosphere insulin are reviewed in this article.

pui:603565557
Title:Formulation and development of a “pressurised metered dose inhalation” beclomethasone 250 mcg
Authors:S. MoreJ. MirzaN. KaleM. GandhiR. Chaudhari
Absract:The purpose of the present research work was to develop a robust and physicochemically stable pMDI formulation for pulmonary delivery of an Glucocorticoide, drug-Beclomethasone. The pMDI was quickly developed, providing a reliable dose in a robust, convenient and multi-dose preparation. Fortunately, at that time, metering valves capable of developing at least 100 precise spray doses had just become available. Sprays from pMDIs are self-propelled, the pressure of propellants inside the canister being used to force the spray out of the pressure of propellants inside the canister being used to force the spray out of the device via a narrow nozzle in the plastic actuator.Beclometasone dipropionate is a pro-drug with weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity. It is extensively hydrolysed via esterase enzymes to the active metabolite beclometasone-17 monopropionate (B-17-MP), which has potent topical antiinflammatory activity. Formulation contains Anhydrous Beclometasone Dipropionate (Micronised), Ethanol, Oleic Acid, HFA 134a(1,1,1,2 Tetrafluoro Ethane), HFA 227ea (1,1,1,2,3,3,3- Heptafluoro Propane), Propylene Glycol, PEG 300, PEG 1000, Povidone K-25. formulation was evaluated for fine particle dose, mass median aerodynamic diameter, uniformity of dose, leak test, water content, net content, no of doses. Hence it was concluded that pressurised based MDI formulation in an attempt to develop pulmonary administrable product of Beclomethasone was found to be stable and robust with desired attributes of packaging requirements.

doi:10.1016/j.etap.2011.02.005
Title:Development of nano alpha-ketoglutarate nebulization formulation and its pharmacokinetic and safety evaluation in healthy human volunteers for cyanide poisoning
Authors:S. SultanaT. SinghF.J. AhmadA. BhatnagarG. Mittal
Absract:Development of nano alpha-ketoglutarate (A-KG) nebulization formulation for neutralization of inhaled cyanide ion toxicity. Objectives of the present study were to (a) develop a novel A-KG nebulization formulation against cyanide poisoning, particularly hydrogen cyanide gas (b) validate its respiratory fraction in vitro and in vivo, and (c) create its pharmacokinetic data in human volunteers. The formulation was optimized on the basis of particle size of aerosolized droplets after nebulization in 6 volunteers. Gamma scintigraphy was used to quantify total and regional lung deposition of nebulized A-KG after radiolabeling it with Technetium-99m. The formulation was optimized using 30% ethanol-saline with particle size in the range of 300-500nm. In vitro and in vivo studies showed that drug nebulization resulted in a significant respirable fraction of 65±0.6% with whole lung deposition of 13±1%. Human pharmacokinetic data was derived in 6 healthy human volunteers with peak serum concentration (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) of 39±3μg/ml, while the area under curve (AUC) after inhalation was 376±23μg×h/ml indicating that the drug was rapidly and completely absorbed when targeted directly to lungs. Significant lung deposition of A-KG was achieved with the developed formulation. The formulation appears to have several advantages, including the potential of neutralizing inhaled CN@sup_begin-@sup_end ions in the lungs themselves. It is a safe and efficacious procedure, suitable for hospital or ambulance use in accidental cyanide poisoning cases, or as a preventive approach for fire-rescue teams. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1002/jps.21629
Title:The role of force control agents in high-dose dry powder inhaler formulations
Authors:P. BegatD.A.V. MortonJ. ShurP. KippaxJ.N. StaniforthR. Price
Absract:The aim of this study was to determine the aerosolisation and aerodynamic properties of model inhalation particles (salbutamol sulphate and budesonide) upon coprocessing with force control agents (FCAs) - leucine, lecithin and magnesium stearate. Coprocessing of the drug particles with FCAs (5%, w/w) was conducted using mechanofusion - a novel dry mechanical fusion process. The influence of mechanofused FCAs on the entrainment and deaggregation behaviour of the drug-only formulations was investigated using a next generation impactor (NGI) and an in-line Spraytec laser diffraction particle sizer. In vitro measurements of salbutamol sulphate coprocessed with FCAs indicated a significant (p<0.001) improvement of the fine particle fraction (FPF). The coprocessing of salbutamol sulphate with magnesium stearate produced the highest FPF, with an increase from 29.18% to 79.42% of the emitted dose. Coprocessing of budesonide particles only led to a small increase in fine particle delivery but a greater reduction in device retention. Aerosolisation analysis of the aerosolised powders indicated more effective aerosolisation and a considerable time reduction in powder bed fluidisation and entrainment upon coprocessing of the APIs with FCAs. From these data, it can be postulated that processing of drug actives with FCAs using mechanofusion is an effective means of improving the deagglomeration and aerosolisation properties of cohesive powders in DPI systems. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1002/ppul.10238
Title:Influence of particle size on lung deposition and pharmacokinetics of beclomethasone dipropionate in children
Authors:L. AgertoftL.W. LaulundL.I. HarrisonS. Pedersen
Absract:We set out to evaluate lung deposition, systemic availability, and basic pharmacokinetic parameters of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) in children with chronic asthma. Plasma levels of BDP, 17 and 21 beclomethasone monopropionate (17-BMP and 21-BMP), and beclomethasone were measured after an intravenous infusion of 60 μg BDP and after inhalation of A) 100 μg HFA-BDP, B) 200 μg HFA-BDP, C) 200 μg HFA-BDP after ingestion of charcoal to block gastrointestinal (GI) absorption of drug, and D) 400 μg CFC-BDP. A breath-actuated pMDI (Autohaler™) was used for HFA inhalations, and a pMDI with a large volume spacer (Volumatic™) for CFC inhalations. Treatments A-D were given in a randomized, cross-over design. Fourteen patients aged 10-14 years completed all 5 study days. The mean systemic bioavailabilities in percent of dose leaving the canister valve (ex-valve) were 70% (100 HFA), 74% (200 HFA), 60% (200 HFA + charcoal), and 27% (400 μg CFC). After HFA treatment, 82% of the systemically available dose was absorbed through the lungs, and 18% from the gastrointestinal tract. The estimated bioavailability of BDP from the GI tract was 68%. BDP was metabolized to 17-BMP within minutes. Mean steady-state volume of distribution of 17-BMP was 84 L, and the mean terminal half-life (T@sub_begin1/2@sub_end) after the four inhalations was 2.7 hr (range, 2.2-3.7 hr). Mean T@sub_begin1/2@sub_end and clearance after i.v. administration were 1.7 hr and 0.9 L/min, respectively. The HFA Autohaler delivers approximately three times as much BDP to the intrapulmonary airways as a CFC-pMDI with a large volume spacer. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2020.08.050
Title:Inhaled bosentan microparticles for the treatment of monocrotaline-induced pulmonary arterial hypertension in rats
Authors:H.-J. LeeY.-B. KwonJ.-H. KangD.-W. OhE.-S. ParkY.-S. RheeJ.-Y. KimD.-H. ShinD.-W. KimC.-W. Park
Absract:The conventional treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) with oral bosentan hydrate has limitations related to the lack of pulmonary selectivity. In this study, we verified the hypothesis of the feasibility of dry powder inhalation of bosentan as an alternative to oral bosentan hydrate for the treatment of PAH. Inhalable bosentan microparticles with the capability of delivery to the peripheral region of the lungs and enhanced bioavailability have been formulated for PAH. The bosentan microparticles were prepared by the co-spray-drying method with bosentan hydrate and mannitol at different weight ratios. The bosentan microparticles were then characterized for their physicochemical properties, in vitro dissolution behavior, and in vitro aerodynamic performance. The in vivo pharmacokinetics and pathological characteristics were evaluated in a monocrotaline-induced rat model of PAH after intratracheal powder administration of bosentan microparticles, in comparison to orally administered bosentan hydrate. The highest performance bosentan microparticles, named SDBM 1:1, had irregular and porous shape. These microparticles had not only the significantly highest aerosol performance (MMAD of 1.91 μm and FPF of 51.68%) in the formulations, but also significantly increased dissolution rate, compared with the raw bosentan hydrate. This treatment to the lungs was also safe, as evidenced by the cytotoxicity assay. Intratracheally administered SDBM 1:1 elicited a significantly higher C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end that were over 10 times higher, compared with those of the raw bosentan hydrate administered orally in the same dose. It also exhibited ameliorative effects on monocrotaline-induced pulmonary arterial remodeling, and right ventricular hypertrophy. The survival rate of the group administrated SDBM1:1 intratracheally was 0.92 at the end of study (Positive control and orally administrated groups were 0.58 and 0.38, respectively). In conclusion, SDBM 1:1 showed promising in vitro and in vivo results with the dry powder inhalation. The inhaled bosentan microparticles can be considered as a potential alternative to oral bosentan hydrate for the treatment of PAH.

doi:10.1007/s00228-021-03164-3
Title:Pharmacokinetics and acute effects of a cannabis standardized preparation after oral and vaporized administration
Authors:A.P. Pérez-AcevedoL. PoyatosE. PapaseitC. Pérez-MañáS. MartinO. HladunM.F. AlbaladejoS. PichiniF.P. BusardóR. PacificiG. MannocchiM. GottardiA.G. Di Trana
Absract:Introduction: The use of standardized preparations with cannabis flower cups for therapeutic/medical purposes is increasing, especially after oral administration of decoction and oil preparations. There are very few studies evaluating the pharmacological effects and pharmacokinetic of the same medicinal cannabis preparations administered by different routes in humans. Objectives: To know the concentrations of cannabinoids and their metabolites in biological matrices (serum, oral fluid, sweat, urine) and acute pharmacological effects after the administration of a standardized cannabis preparation in oral formulation (decoction, oil) and vaporized. Methods: The study design was open-label, non-randomized, singleblind with three different formulation (oral decoction, oral oil, vaporized). Only one formulation was administered per session. The standardized cannabis product was FM2 from Italy that contains a 6% of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and a 8% of cannabidiol (CBD). A total of 43 young healthy volunteers with recreational users of cannabis participated in the study (37 males and 6 females). Thirteen subjects were treated with 100 mL of cannabis decoction (1.8 mg of THC and 2.7 mg of CBD), other thirteen with 0.45 ml of oil (1.8 mg of THC and 3.8 mg of CBD) and fourteen inhaled 100 mg of cannabis (0.6 to 2 mg and CBD 0.8 to 3 mg) using the Volcano vaporizer. Serial blood samples were obtained along 24 hours. In addition oral fluid and urine were collected. Pharmacological effects were evaluated using standardized questionnaires and vital signs determination. Concentrations of cannabinoids in different matrices were quantified with validated methods. Results: For the oral route, although oil contained significantly more THC, blood concentrations of 11-OH-THC, THC-CCOOH, and THCCOOH Gluc were similar in both oral formulations (oil and decoction). THC was absorbed similarly in decoction and oil. On the contrary, although the oil contained significantly more CBD, the absorption was significantly higher with the decoction. After inhalation, concentrations of THC and CBD were very higher in comparison to oral route, with faster peak concentration at 10 min in comparison to oral (1.3-1.8 hours). The THC-COOH Gluc was detected mainly in urine samples, followed by THC-COOH and THC-Gluc, and the most excreted CBD metabolites were 7-OH-CBD, and 7-COOH-CBD in the three formulations. The decoction induced a greater sensation of hunger and drowsiness than oil, but not euphoria-related effect were observed. The vaporization produced the typical effects of THC with feeling of high, intensity, good effects,hunger, drowsiness, and very mild changes in blood pressure and a significant increase in heart rate. No serious adverse effects were observed. Conclusions: Pharmacokinetic of cannabinoids, their precursors and their metabolites in biological fluids from individuals treated with oral and vaporized medicinal cannabis (decoction, oil, vaporization) cannabis showed high inter-individual variability, in spite that we use the same standardized preparation. This variability is probability due to the difficulties in standardization the exact dose of cannabis compounds (THC/CBD) when administered by different preparations and routes.

doi:10.4103/1817-1737.102166
Title:The Saudi initiative for asthma - 2012 update: Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma in adults and children
Authors:M.S. Al-MoamaryS.A. AlhaiderM.S. Al-HajjajM.O. Al-GhobainM.M. IdreesM.O. ZeitouniA.S. Al-HarbiM.M. Al DabbaghH. Al-MatarH.S. Alorainy
Absract:This an updated guidelines for the diagnosis and management of asthma, developed by the Saudi Initiative for Asthma (SINA) group, a subsidiary of the Saudi Thoracic Society. The main objective of SINA is to have updated guidelines, which are simple to understand and easy to use by non-asthma specialists, including primary care and general practice physicians. This new version includes updates of acute and chronic asthma management, with more emphasis on the use of Asthma Control Test in the management of asthma, and a new section on "difficult-to-treat asthma." Further, the section on asthma in children was re-written to cover different aspects in this age group. The SINA panel is a group of Saudi experts with well-respected academic backgrounds and experience in the field of asthma. The guidelines are formatted based on the available evidence, local literature, and the current situation in Saudi Arabia. There was an emphasis on patient-doctor partnership in the management that also includes a self-management plan. The approach adopted by the SINA group is mainly based on disease control as it is the ultimate goal of treatment.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2018.10.020
Title:Inhalable poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticles encapsulating all-trans-Retinoic acid (ATRA) as a host-directed, adjunctive treatment for Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection
Authors:G. O'ConnorN. KrishnanA. Fagan-MurphyJ. CassidyS. O'LearyB.D. RobertsonJ. KeaneM.P. O'SullivanS.-A. Cryan
Absract:Ending the tuberculosis (TB) epidemic by 2030 was recently listed in the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals alongside HIV/AIDS and malaria as it continues to be a major cause of death worldwide. With a significant proportion of TB cases caused by resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), there is an urgent need to develop new and innovative approaches to treatment. Since 1989, researchers have been assessing the anti-bacterial effects of the active metabolite of vitamin A, all trans-Retinoic acid (ATRA) solution, in Mtb models. More recently the antibacterial effect of ATRA has been shown to regulate the immune response to infection via critical gene expression, monocyte activation and the induction of autophagy leading to its application as a host-directed therapy (HDT). Inhalation is an attractive route for targeted treatment of TB, and therefore we have developed ATRA-loaded microparticles (ATRA-MP) within the inhalable size range (2.07 ± 0.5 µm) offering targeted delivery of the encapsulated cargo (70.5 ± 2.3%) to the site of action within the alveolar macrophage, which was confirmed by confocal microscopy. Efficient cellular delivery of ATRA was followed by a reduction in Mtb growth (H37Ra) in THP-1 derived macrophages evaluated by both the BACT/ALERT® system and enumeration of colony forming units (CFU). The antibacterial effect of ATRA-MP treatment was further assessed in BALB/c mice infected with the virulent strain of Mtb (H37Rv). ATRA-MP treatments significantly decreased the bacterial burden in the lungs alongside a reduction in pulmonary pathology following just three doses administered intratracheally. The immunomodulatory effects of targeted ATRA treatment in the lungs indicate a distinct yet effective mechanism of action amongst the formulations. This is the first study to-date of a controlled release ATRA treatment for TB suitable for inhalation that offers improved targeting of a HDT, retains antibacterial efficacy and improves pulmonary pathology compared to ATRA solution.

doi:10.1007/s00210-001-0514-x
Title:KCO912: A potent and selective opener of ATP-dependent potassium (K@sub_beginATP@sub_end) channels which suppresses airways hyperreactivity at doses devoid of cardiovascular effects
Authors:K.-H. BuchheitP.W. ManleyU. QuastU. RussL. MazzoniJ.R. Fozard
Absract:ATP-sensitive potassium (K@sup_beginATP@sup_end) channel openers can obviate experimental airways hyperreactivity (AHR) and have shown therapeutic benefit in asthma. However, the clinical potential of such compounds has been compromised by cardiovascular side-effects. We report here the pharmacological properties of (3S,4R)-3,4-dihydro-3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-4-(2-oxo-1-piperidinyl)-N-phenyl- 2H-1-benzopyran-6-sulphonamide (KCO912), a K@sub_beginATP@sub_end nnel opener which suppresses AHR at doses devoid of cardiovascular effects. Specific interaction of KCO912 with the native vascular channel and the sulphonylurea receptor subunit (SUR2B) of the vascular K@sub_beginATP@sub_end channel was shown in radioligand binding assays. In rat aortic strips, KCO912 inhibited specific binding of [@sup_begin3@sup_endH]P1075 and [@sup_begin3@sup_endH]glibenclamide with up to 100% efficacy and with pK@sub_begini@sub_end values of 8.28 and 7.96, respectively. In HEK cells transfected with the recombinant vascular K@sub_beginATP@sub_end channel (Kir6.1 + SUR2B), the compound eliciteda concentration-dependent outward current (pEC@sub_begin50@sub_end 6.8) and in preloaded rat aortic rings it induced a concentration-dependent glibenclamide-sensitive@sup_begin86@sup_endRb@sup_begin+@sup_end efflux (pEC@sub_begin50@sub_end 7.51). Following intratracheal (i.t.) administration of KCO912 to guinea pigs, AHR induced by immune complexes or ozone was rapidly (<5 min) reversed (ED@sub_begin50@sub_end values 1 μg/kg and 0.03μg/kg, respectively). Changes in blood pressure were seen only at doses =100 μg/kg yielding 'therapeutic ratios' of 100 and 3333, respectively. In addition, KCO912 reversed AHR induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS; ED@sub_begin50@sub_end 0.5 μg/kg i.t.) and a dose of 1 μg/kg i.t. fully reversed AHR induced by subchronic treatment with salbutamol. At doses which suppressed AHR, KCO912 had no anti-bronchoconstrictor effects in normoreactive guinea pigs. In spontaneously hyperreactive rhesus monkeys, KCO912, given by inhalation, inhibited methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction (ED@sub_begin50@sub_end 1.2 μg/kg) but had no significant effects on blood pressure or heart rate at all doses tested (therapeutic ratio >100). In rats given 3 mg/kg of KCO912 by inhalation, the ratio of the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) for lung to the AUC in blood was 190 and the compound was rapidly cleared (initial t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end approximately 30 min). Thus, the wide therapeutic window following administration of KCO912 to the lung seems likely to reflect slow or incomplete passage of KCO912 from the lung into the systemic circulation coupled with rapid removal from the systemic circulation. Thus, when given locally to the airways in both guinea pigs and monkeys, KCO912 suppresses AHR at doses devoid of cardiovascular effects and has a significantly better therapeutic window than representative earlier generation K@sub_beginATP@sub_end channel openers defined in the same models. Given the pivotal role of AHR in the pathophysiology of asthma and the preclinical profile of KCO912, this compound was selected for clinical evaluation.

doi:10.1016/j.anai.2018.09.190
Title:A PHASE 1/1B STUDY OF AN INHALED FORMULATION OF ITRACONAZOLE IN HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS AND ASTHMATICS
Authors:D. HavaL. TanP. JohnsonA. CurranJ. PerryS. KramerK. KaneP. BedwellD. HendersonG. LaytonK. SinghL. ConnorD. SinghJ. Roach
Absract:Introduction: Oral itraconazole has variable pharmacokinetics and risks of significant adverse events (AEs) associated with high plasma exposure. A dry powder inhalation formulation of itraconazole (ITRA) is being developed to treat Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (ABPA). This study was conducted to evaluate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ITRA in healthy volunteers and asthmatics. Methods: The study was a 3-part, multi-center, open-label study. Healthy volunteers (n=5-6/cohort) received either single (Part 1 - 5mg, 10mg, 25mg, 35mg) or multiple doses of ITRA (Part 2 -10mg, 20mg, 35mg) over 14d. In Part 3 stable, adult asthmatics received a single dose of 20mg ITRA or 200mg of oral itraconazole in a 2-period cross-over design. Itraconazole plasma (Parts 1-3) and sputum (Part 3) concentrations were evaluated. Results: All study drug-related AEs were mild, and no moderate, severe or serious study drug-related AEs were reported. The most common drug-related AE was the infrequent occurrence of mild cough. At steady-state, ITRA resulted in plasma exposure (AUC0-24h) that was 100-400 fold lower across doses tested than reported for oral itraconazole. In asthmatics, ITRA achieved Cmax sputum concentrations 45-fold higher and plasma AUC0-24h concentrations 85-fold lower than oral itraconazole. Conclusions: ITRA was safe and well-tolerated under the study conditions tested, and achieved significantly higher lung and lower plasma exposure compared to oral itraconazole, supporting the potential of ITRA to improve upon both the efficacy and safety profile observed with oral itraconazole in patients with ABPA.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2017.12.006
Title:Investigations on the Mechanism of Magnesium Stearate to Modify Aerosol Performance in Dry Powder Inhaled Formulations
Authors:M.W. JetzerM. SchneiderB.D. MorricalG. Imanidis
Absract:The potential of the force control agent magnesium stearate (MgSt) to enhance the aerosol performance of lactose-based dry powder inhaled (DPI) formulations was investigated in this study. The excipient-blends were investigated with analytical techniques including time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry and single particle aerosol mass spectrometry (SPAMS), and particle size, morphology, and surface properties were evaluated. Excipient-blends were manufactured either by high-shear or low-shear blending lactose carrier with different amounts of MgSt in the range from 0% to 10% (w/w). Fluticasone propionate (FP) and salmeterol xinafoate (SX) used as model active pharmaceutical ingredients were added by low-shear mixing. The in vitro aerosol performance in terms of aerodynamic particle size distribution and fine particle fraction (FPF) of the FP and SX DPI formulations was evaluated with the Next Generation Impactor and also with SPAMS using a Breezhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end inhalation device. The distribution of MgSt on the lactose carrier in the blends was visualized and found to depend strongly on the blending method. This affected drug particle detachment from the carrier and thus impacted aerosol performance for FP and SX. Compared with blends without force control agent, low-shear blending of MgSt increases the FPF of the model drug SX, whereas high-shear blending significantly increased FPF of both SX and FP. The interactions between drug and carrier particles were substantially affected by the choice of blending technique of MgSt with lactose. This allows detailed control of aerosol performance of a DPI by an adequate choice of the blending technique. SPAMS successfully demonstrated that it is capable to distinguish changes in DPI formulations blended with different amounts of MgSt, and additional information in terms of dispersibility of fine particles could be generated.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.7b01062
Title:SHetA2 Dry Powder Aerosols for Tuberculosis: Formulation, Design, and Optimization Using Quality by Design
Authors:M. IbrahimM.K. HatipogluL. Garcia-Contreras
Absract:Tuberculosis (TB) is a life threatening pulmonary infection caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB). Current treatments are complex, lengthy, and associated with severe side effects that decrease patient compliance and increase the probability of the emergence of drug resistant strains. Thus, more effective drugs with little to no side effects are needed to diversify the armamentarium against the global TB epidemic. SHetA2, an anticancer compound with null toxicity at doses much higher than the effective dose, was recently discovered to be active against MTB. In the present study, a dry powder formulation of SHetA2 for pulmonary delivery was developed to overcome its poor aqueous solubility and to maximize its concentration in the lungs, the main site of TB infection. Using quality by design (QbD) methodology, three different formulations of SHetA2 microparticles (MPs) were designed, manufactured, and optimized, SHetA2 alone, SHetA2 PLGA, and SHetA2 mannitol MPs, to maximize the drug dose, target alveolar macrophages, and increase drug solubility, respectively. The resulting three SHetA2 MP formulations had spherical shape with particle size ranging from 1 to 3 μm and a narrow size distribution, suitable for uniform delivery to the alveolar region of the lungs. Upon dispersion with the Aerolizer dry powder inhaler (DPI), all three SHetA2 MP formulations had aerodynamic diameters smaller than 3.3 μm and fine particle fractions (FPF@sub_begin4.46@sub_end) greater than 77%. SHetA2 remained chemically stable after MP manufacture by spray drying, but the drug transformed from the crystalline to the amorphous form, which significantly enhanced the solubility of SHetA2. Using a custom-made dissolution apparatus, the FPF@sub_begin4.46@sub_end of SHetA2 MP dissolved much faster and to a greater extent (21.19 ± 4.40%) than the unprocessed drug (3.51 ± 0.9%). Thus, the physicochemical characteristics, in vitro aerosol performance, and dissolution rate of the optimized SHetA2 MPs appear to be suitable to achieve therapeutic concentrations in the lungs.

doi:10.1016/j.chest.2016.07.035
Title:Dilemmas, Confusion, and Misconceptions Related to Small Airways Directed Therapy
Authors:F. LavoriniS. PedersenO.S. UsmaniP.J. BarnesL. CorbettaC.J. CorriganB.L. ChawesP.N.R. DekhuijzenT. HausenF. LavoriniM.L. LevyS. PedersenN. RocheJ. SanchisO.S. UsmaniW. Vincken
Absract:During the past decade, there has been increasing evidence that the small airways (ie, airways < 2 mm in internal diameter) contribute substantially to the pathophysiologic and clinical expression of asthma and COPD. The increased interest in small airways is, at least in part, a result of innovation in small-particle aerosol formulations that better target the distal lung and also advanced physiologic methods of assessing small airway responses. Increasing the precision of drug deposition may improve targeting of specific diseases or receptor locations, decrease airway drug exposure and adverse effects, and thereby increase the efficiency and effectiveness of inhaled drug delivery. The availability of small-particle aerosols of corticosteroids, bronchodilators, or their combination enables a higher total lung deposition and better peripheral lung penetration and provides added clinical benefit, compared with large-particle aerosol treatment. However, a number of questions remain unanswered about the pragmatic approach relevant for clinicians to consider the role of small airways directed therapy in the day-to-day management of asthma and COPD. We thus have tried to clarify the dilemmas, confusion, and misconceptions related to small airways directed therapy. To this end, we have reviewed all studies on small-particle aerosol therapy systematically to address the dilemmas, confusion, and misconceptions related to small airways directed therapy.

doi:10.2217/nnm-2016-0045
Title:Pharmacological and toxicological assessment of innovative self-Assembled polymeric micelles as powders for insulin pulmonary delivery
Authors:F. AndradeP. FonteA. CostaC.C. ReisR. NunesA. AlmeidaD. FerreiraM. OlivaB. Sarmento
Absract:Aim: Explore the use of polymeric micelles in the development of powders intended for pulmonary delivery of biopharmaceuticals, using insulin as a model protein. Materials & methods: Formulations were assessed in vitro for aerosolization properties and in vivo for efficacy and safety using a streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat model. Results: Powders presented good aerosolization properties like fine particle fraction superior to 40% and a mass median aerodynamic diameter inferior of 6 μm. Endotracheally instilled powders have shown a faster onset of action than subcutaneous administration of insulin at a dose of 10 IU/kg, with pharmacological availabilities up to 32.5% of those achieved by subcutaneous route. Additionally, micelles improved the hypoglycemic effect of insulin. Bronchoalveolar lavage screening for toxicity markers (e.g., lactate dehydrogenase, cytokines) revealed no signs of lung inflammation and cytotoxicity 14 days postadministration. Conclusion: Developed powders showed promising safety and efficacy characteristics for the systemic delivery of insulin by pulmonary administration.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2015.1223
Title:The ELLIPTA@sup_begin®@sup_end dry powder inhaler: Design, functionality, in vitro dosing performance and critical task compliance by patients and caregivers
Authors:A.C. GrantR. WalkerM. HamiltonK. Garrill
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are commonly used for the delivery of inhaled medications, and should provide consistent, efficient dosing, be easy to use correctly, and be liked by patients; these attributes can all affect patient compliance and therefore treatment efficacy. The ELLIPTA@sup_begin®@sup_end DPI was developed for the delivery of once-daily therapies for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It has moderate resistance to airflow and can hold one or two blister strips, with each blister containing a sealed single dose of medication. Monotherapies can be delivered by the single-strip configuration and, in the two-strip configuration, one dose from each strip can be aerosolized simultaneously to allow combination therapies to be delivered, which enables the formulations for each product to be developed individually, since they are stored separately until the point of administration. There are three principal operating steps to administer a dose: open, inhale, close. This article summarizes the design, functionality, and in vitro dose-delivery characteristics of the ELLIPTA inhaler, and describes the results of human factors validation tests, designed to assess the performance of critical tasks required to use the inhaler. Results from the in vitro studies indicate that the ELLIPTA inhaler performs consistently with respect to in vitro dose delivery characteristics at a range of flow rates that can be achieved by the target population (≥30 L/min) and over its 30-day in-use life. Data from the human factors validation tests demonstrated that almost all participants (≥97%) were able to complete each of the steps required to prepare a dose for inhalation without error. Overall, the ELLIPTA inhaler has a versatile single- or two-strip design that allows it to be used for the delivery of a range of treatment options. It also improves patient ease-of-use when compared with the DISKUS@sup_begin®@sup_end DPI.

doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0061853
Title:Permeability Enhancers Dramatically Increase Zanamivir Absolute Bioavailability in Rats: Implications for an Orally Bioavailable Influenza Treatment
Authors:E.H. HolmesH. DevalapallyL. LiM.L. PerdueG.K. Ostrander
Absract:We have demonstrated that simple formulations composed of the parent drug in combination with generally regarded as safe (GRAS) permeability enhancers are capable of dramatically increasing the absolute bioavailability of zanamivir. This has the advantage of not requiring modification of the drug structure to promote absorption, thus reducing the regulatory challenges involved in conversion of an inhaled to oral route of administration of an approved drug. Absolute bioavailability increases of up to 24-fold were observed when Capmul MCM L8 (composed of mono- and diglycerides of caprylic/capric acids in glycerol) was mixed with 1.5 mg of zanamivir and administered intraduodenally to rats. Rapid uptake (t@sub_beginmax@sub_end of 5 min) and a C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of over 7200 ng/mL was achieved. Variation of the drug load or amount of enhancer demonstrated a generally linear variation in absorption, indicating an ability to optimize a formulation for a desired outcome such as a targeted C@sub_beginmax@sub_end for enzyme saturation. No absorption enhancement was observed when the enhancer was given 2 hr prior to drug administration, indicating, in combination with the observed t@sub_beginmax@sub_end, that absorption enhancement is temporary. This property is significant and aligns well with therapeutic applications to limit undesirable drug-drug interactions, potentially due to the presence of other poorly absorbed polar drugs. These results suggest that optimal human oral dosage forms of zanamivir should be enteric-coated gelcaps or softgels for intraduodenal release. There continues to be a strong need and market for multiple neuraminidase inhibitors for influenza treatment. Creation of orally available formulations of inhibitor drugs that are currently administered intravenously or by inhalation would provide a significant improvement in treatment of influenza. The very simple GRAS formulation components and anticipated dosage forms would require low manufacturing costs and yield enhanced convenience. These results are being utilized to design prototype dosage forms for initial human pharmacokinetic studies. © 2013 Holmes et al.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2011.08.031
Title:Highly compacted DNA nanoparticles with low MW PEG coatings: In vitro, ex vivo and in vivo evaluation
Authors:N.J. BoylanJ.S. SukS.K. LaiR. JelinekM.P. BoyleM.J. CooperJ. Hanes
Absract:Highly compacted DNA nanoparticles, composed of single molecules of plasmid DNA compacted with block copolymers of poly-l-lysine and 10 kDa polyethylene glycol (CK@sub_begin30@sub_endPEG@sub_begin10k@sub_end), mediate effective gene delivery to the brain, eyes and lungs in vivo. Nevertheless, we found that CK @sub_begin30@sub_endPEG@sub_begin10k@sub_end DNA nanoparticles are immobilized by mucoadhesive interactions in sputum that lines the lung airways of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), which would presumably preclude the efficient delivery of cargo DNA to the underlying epithelium. We previously found that nanoparticles can rapidly penetrate human mucus secretions if they are densely coated with low MW PEG (2-5 kDa), whereas nanoparticles with 10 kDa PEG coatings were immobilized. We thus sought to reduce mucoadhesion of DNA nanoparticles by producing CK @sub_begin30@sub_endPEG DNA nanoparticles with low MW PEG coatings. We examined the morphology, colloidal stability, nuclease resistance, diffusion in human sputum and in vivo gene transfer of CK@sub_begin30@sub_endPEG DNA nanoparticles prepared using various PEG MWs. CK@sub_begin30@sub_endPEG@sub_begin10k@sub_end and CK@sub_begin30@sub_endPEG @sub_begin5k@sub_end formulations did not aggregate in saline, provided partial protection against DNase I digestion and exhibited the highest gene transfer to lung airways following inhalation in BALB/c mice. However, all DNA nanoparticle formulations were immobilized in freshly expectorated human CF sputum, likely due to inadequate PEG surface coverage. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2009.04.014
Title:In vitro and in vivo characterization on amorphous solid dispersion of cyclosporine A for inhalation therapy
Authors:S. OnoueH. SatoY. KawabataT. MizumotoN. HashimotoS. Yamada
Absract:Cyclosporine A (CsA) has been clinically used as immunosuppressant, and new application for airway inflammation was also proposed. However, the clinical use of CsA was limited due to severe adverse effects after systemic exposure and the poor solubility. In the present investigation, novel respirable powder (RP) of CsA was developed for pulmonary administration with use of solid dispersion of wet-milled CsA (WM/CsA), and the physicochemical and pharmacological properties of the WM/CsA and its RP formulation were characterized. CsA in the solid dispersion was found to be amorphous by X-ray powder diffraction and differential scanning calorimetry. It exhibited the improved dissolution behavior as compared to active pharmaceutical ingredients. Laser diffraction and cascade impactor analysis of newly developed WM/CsA-RP, consisting of jet-milled WM/CsA and lactose carriers, suggested high dispersion and deposition in the respiratory organs with the emitted dose and the fine particle fraction of 96 and 54%, respectively. Intratracheal administration of WM/CsA-RP (100 μg CsA) in experimental inflammatory rats led to 71 and 85% reduction of granulocyte recruitment in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids and lung tissues, respectively, with showing ca 10@sup_begin2@sup_end-fold reduced AUC and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end values of plasma CsA as compared to the oral dosage form of CsA at toxic concentration (10 mg/kg). Upon these findings, WM/CsA-RP would be efficacious dosage form for clinical treatment of airway inflammations with minimal systemic side effects. © 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.healun.2009.02.001
Title:Efficacy of a New Pulmonary Cyclosporine A Powder Formulation for Prevention of Transplant Rejection in Rats
Authors:G.S. ZijlstraJ. WoltingJ. PropA.H. PetersenW.L.J. HinrichsD.R.A. UgesH.A.M. KerstjensW. van der BijH.W. Frijlink
Absract:Background: The aim of this pilot study was to determine the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporine A powder for inhalation (iCsA) and its rejection prevention efficacy in an experimental lung transplantation model in rats. Methods: Single-dose pharmacokinetics (10 mg/kg) of pulmonary and orally administered cyclosporine A was determined in whole blood and in lung and kidney tissue. The efficacy of iCsA (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) in inhibiting rejection was determined in an orthotopic left-lung transplantation rat model and compared with orally administered CsA (5 and 10 mg/kg). The ventilation score of lung allografts was assessed with roentgenograms. At Day 10 post-operatively, the rats were terminated and lungs were prepared for histologic analysis. Results: In the pharmacokinetics study, AUC@sub_begin0-48@sub_end values in blood for iCsA and oral CsA were similar (47,790 ± 1,739 and 46,987 ± 2,439 ng h ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively). In contrast, iCsA levels in lung tissue were much higher than oral CsA levels (AUC: 9,152,977 ± 698,920 vs 84,149 ± 8,134 ng h g@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively), showing the effectiveness of the pulmonary administration. In the rejection study, non-treated animals showed complete rejection after 8 days according to roentgenography. Treatment with 5 mg/kg iCsA reduced rejection on Day 10, whereas the 2.5-mg/kg dose did not inhibit rejection. Oral CsA at 10 mg/kg reduced rejection, whereas the 5-mg/kg dose showed hardly any effect on rejection. Conclusions: We found that iCsA is an effective immunosuppressive formulation, and may become a valuable asset for clinical use in combination with systemic immunosuppression. © 2009 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2020.07.006
Title:Emerging trends in inhaled drug delivery
Authors:A.J. Hickey
Absract:Ideally, inhaled therapy is driven by the needs of specific disease management. Lung biology interfaces with inhaler performance to allow optimal delivery of therapeutic agent for disease treatment. Inhalation aerosol products consist of the therapeutic agent, formulation, and device. The manufacturing specifications on each of the components, and their combination, allow accurate and reproducible control of measures of quality and in-vitro performance. These product variables in combination with patient variables, including co-ordination skill during inhaler use, intrinsic lung biology, disease and consequent pulmonary function, contribute to drug safety and efficacy outcomes. Due to the complexity of pulmonary drug delivery, predicting biological outcomes from first principles has been challenging. Ongoing research appears to offer new insights that may allow accurate prediction of drug behavior in the lungs. Disruptive innovations were characteristic of research and development in inhaled drug delivery at the end of the last century. Although there were relatively few new inhaled products launched in the first decade of the new millennium it was evident that the earlier years of exploration resulted in maturation of commercially successful technologies. A significant increase in new and generic products has occurred in the last decade and technical, regulatory and disease management trends are emerging. Some of these developments can trace their origins to earlier periods of creativity in the field while others are a reflection of advances in other areas of basic and computer, sciences and engineering. Select biological and technical advances are highlighted with reflections on the potential to impact future clinical and regulatory considerations.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2010.07.057
Title:A phospholipid-apolipoprotein A-I nanoparticle containing amphotericin B as a drug delivery platform with cell membrane protective properties
Authors:B.L. BurgessG. CavigiolioM.V. FannucchiB. IllekT.M. ForteM.N. Oda
Absract:Amphotericin B (AMB), a potent antifungal agent, has been employed as an inhalable therapy for pulmonary fungal infections. We recently described a novel nano-sized delivery vehicle composed of phospholipid (PL) and apolipoprotein A-I, NanoDisk (ND), to which we added AMB as a payload (ND-AMB). The goal of the present study was to evaluate whether ND-AMB, compared to other formulations, preserves lung cell integrity in vitro, as AMB can be toxic to mammalian cells and reduce lung function when inhaled. Epithelial integrity was assessed by measuring K@sup_begin+@sup_end ion flux across a model airway epithelium, Calu-3 cells. In this assay ND-AMB was at least 8-fold less disruptive than AMB/deoxycholate (DOC). Cell viability studies confirmed this observation. Unexpectedly, the ND vehicle restored the integrity of a membrane compromised by prior exposure to AMB. An alternative formulation of ND-AMB containing a high load of AMB per ND was not protective, suggesting that ND with a low ratio of AMB to PL can sequester additional AMB from membranes. ND-AMB also protected HepG2 cells from the cytotoxicity of AMB, as determined by cellular viability and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels. This study suggests that ND-AMB may be safe for administration via inhalation and reveals a unique activity whereby ND-AMB protects lung epithelial membranes from AMB toxicity. © 2010 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.2146/ajhp080261
Title:Mixing and compatibility guide for commonly used aerosolized medications
Authors:D.K. BurchettW. DarkoJ. ZahraJ. NoviaskyL. ProbstA. Smith
Absract:Purpose. A mixing and compatibility guide for commonly used aerosolized medications was developed. Summary. Compatibility guides for injectable drugs are available as a reference for pharmacists, nurses, and medical personnel. These charts are commonly used in hospitals and other health care institutions and provide a quick, easy reference for compatibility of frequently used intravenous medications. Respiratory therapists are frequently directed to administer various aerosolized medications and are often faced with the challenge of uncertain compatibility of these drugs when mixed together. However, there appear to be limited data regarding the compatibility of these aerosolized admixtures. After a careful review of the literature, a compatibility chart was developed that should provide significant value to pharmacists, nurses, and respiratory therapists who administer aerosolized medications. The authors of a recently published evaluation of the compatibility of common inhalation solutions summarized their findings in a concise table. This table served as a template to develop a more comprehensive mixing and compatibility guide in the form of an easy-to-use reference chart, which includes additional agents, compatibility references on the chart, and compatibility information for pharmacists, nurses, physicians, and respiratory therapists. Conclusion. A compatibility guide for aerosolized medications was developed for use by staff who administer these agents. Copyright © 2010, American Society of Health-System Pharmacists, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1166/jbn.2008.334
Title:Inhaled liposomes - Current strategies and future challenges
Authors:M.M. GasparU. BakowskyC. Ehrhardt
Absract:Inhalation of therapeutic aerosols is a long established means of delivering drugs topically to the lungs or to the systemic circulation. In addition to drug solutions, suspensions and particulates, liposomal formulations are being developed for aerosol administration. This review summarises the current state-of-the-art in pulmonary liposome delivery. Requirements for successful liposomal aerosol formulations are highlighted as well as the impact of different nebuliser systems on liposomal stability. The results of in vitro and in vivo studies using liposomal aerosols in the treatment of microbial infections, targeting of macrophages, anti-cancer therapy, and the delivery of biopharmaceuticals are discussed. Due to their versatility and biocompatibility, liposomes are promising candidates for pulmonary drug delivery that enable the delivery of compounds with formulation issues (e.g., lipophilic drugs and sensitive biopharmaceuticals) and to create a drug depot in the lung for sustained release. Copyright © 2008 American Scientific Publishers All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2007.03.016
Title:Study of the dispersion behaviour of l-leucine containing microparticles synthesized with an aerosol flow reactor method
Authors:J. RaulaJ.A. KurkelaD.P. BrownE.I. Kauppinen
Absract:l-leucine containing particles having salbutamol sulphate or sodium chloride as a main component have been produced by an aerosol flow reactor method. In the method, aqueous solute droplets were transferred into a heated laminar flow reactor where droplet drying took place. The geometric number mean diameter (GNMD) of the produced particles varied between 0.50 and 1.01 μm. Amino acid l-leucine, due to its surface-active nature in water, formed the outer layer of the initial droplet and in the product composite salbutamol and NaCl powders. The morphology of the amorphous salbutamol particles changed from spherical to wrinkled and that of the crystalline NaCl particles from faceted to rounded but fractured due to incorporated l-leucine. These powders mixed with coarse lactose powder were tested in a novel deagglomeration apparatus where they experienced continuous turbulent flows with jet flow rates from 15 to 90 l/min intended to disperse powder agglomerates. In general, the incorporation of l-leucine improved dispersion efficiency as well as decreased dependence on dispersing flow rate of all the powders. The influence of l-leucine was observed particularly at low flow rates: The particle number concentration of the dispersed NaCl particles increased ∼ 19 times and that of the salbutamol particles ∼ 12 times with 20 wt.% of l-leucine at a flow rate of 15 l/min. Added l-leucine affected the dispersion of salbutamol particles more than that of NaCl particles due to different particle surface. Moreover, the salbutamol-l-leucine agglomerates were reduced to the primary particles at high flow rates. This was not observed for the NaCl-l-leucine agglomerates. Fine particle fractions (FPF, D ≤ 5 μm) of NaCl-l-leucine and salbutamol-l-leucine composite particles at a flow rate of 60 l/min increased, respectively, from 0.14 to 0.29 and 0.19 to 0.39 with increasing l-leucine content. Commercial micronized salbutamol powder gave an FPF of 0.15. © 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.07.023
Title:Investigation of drug dissolution and uptake from low-density DPI formulations in an impactor–integrated cell culture model
Authors:K. ŠimkováU. ThormannG. Imanidis
Absract:Besides deposition, pulmonary bioavailability is determined by dissolution of particles in the scarce epithelial fluid and by cellular API uptake. In the present work, we have developed an experimental in vitro model, which is combining the state-of-the-art next generation impactor (NGI), used for aerodynamic performance assessment of inhalation products, with a culture of human alveolar A549 epithelial cells to study the fate of inhaled drugs following lung deposition. The goal was to investigate five previously developed nano-milled and spray-dried budesonide formulations and to examine the suitability of the in vitro test model. The NGI dissolution cups of stages 3, 4, and 5 were transformed to accommodate cell culture inserts while assuring minimal interference with the air flow. A549 cells were cultivated at the air–liquid interface on Corning® Matrigel® -coated inserts. After deposition of aerodynamically classified powders on the cell cultures, budesonide amount was determined on the cell surface, in the interior of the cell monolayer, and in the basal solution for four to eight hours. Significant differences in the total deposited drug amount and the amount remaining on the cell surface at the end of the experiment were found between different formulations and NGI stages. Roughly 50% of budesonide was taken up by the cells and converted to a large extent to its metabolic conjugate with oleic acid for all formulations and stages. Prolonged time required for complete drug dissolution and cell uptake in case of large deposited powder amounts suggested initial drug saturation of the surfactant layer of the cell surface. Discrimination between formulations with respect to time scale of dissolution and cell uptake was possible with the present test model providing useful insights into the biopharmaceutical performance of developed formulations that may be relevant for predicting local bioavailability. The absolute quantitative result of cell uptake and permeation into the systemic compartment is unreliable, though, because of partly compromised cell membrane integrity due to particle impaction and professed leakiness of A549 monolayer tight junctions, respectively.

doi:10.1089/humc.2014.019
Title:Aerosol delivery of DNA/liposomes to the lung for cystic fibrosis gene therapy
Authors:L.A. DaviesG.A. Nunez-AlonsoG. McLachlanS.C. HydeD.R. Gill
Absract:Lung gene therapy is being evaluated for a range of acute and chronic diseases, including cystic fibrosis (CF). As these therapies approach clinical realization, it is becoming increasingly clear that the ability to efficiently deliver gene transfer agents (GTAs) to target cell populations within the lung may prove just as critical as the gene therapy formulation itself in terms of generating positive clinical outcomes. Key to the success of any aerosol gene therapy is the interaction between the GTA and nebulization device. We evaluated the effects of aerosolization on our preferred formulation, plasmid DNA (pDNA) complexed with the cationic liposome GL67A (pDNA/GL67A) using commercially available nebulizer devices. The relatively high viscosity (6.3±0.1 cP) and particulate nature of pDNA/GL67A formulations hindered stable aerosol generation in ultrasonic and vibrating mesh nebulizers but was not problematic in the jet nebulizers tested. Aerosol size characteristics varied significantly between devices, but the AeroEclipse II nebulizer operating at 50 psi generated stable pDNA/GL67A aerosols suitable for delivery to the CF lung (mass median aerodynamic diameter 3.4±0.1 μm). Importantly, biological function of pDNA/GL67A formulations was retained after nebulization, and although aerosol delivery rate was lower than that of other devices (0.17±0.01 ml/min), the breath-actuated AeroEclipse II nebulizer generated aerosol only during the inspiratory phase and as such was more efficient than other devices with 83±3% of generated aerosol available for patient inhalation. On the basis of these results, we have selected the AeroEclipse II nebulizer for the delivery of pDNA/GL67A formulations to the lungs of CF patients as part of phase IIa/b clinical studies. © Copyright 2014, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2014.

doi:10.1007/s11095-008-9575-6
Title:Preparation of active proteins, vaccines and pharmaceuticals as fine powders using supercritical or near-critical fluids
Authors:S.P. CapeJ.A. VillaE.T.S. HuangT.-H. YangJ.F. CarpenterR.E. Sievers
Absract:Supercritical or near-critical fluid processes for generating microparticles have enjoyed considerable attention in the past decade or so, with good success for substances soluble in supercritical fluids or organic solvents. In this review, we survey their application to the production of protein particles. A recently developed process known as CO@sub_begin2@sub_end-assisted nebulization with a Bubble Dryer® (CAN-BD) has been demonstrated to have broad applicability to small-molecule as well as macromolecule substances (including therapeutic proteins). The principles of CAN-BD are discussed as well as the stabilization, micronization and drying of a wide variety of materials. More detailed case studies are presented for three proteins, two of which are of therapeutic interest: anti-CD4 antibody (rheumatoid arthritis), α@sub_begin1@sub_end-antitrypsin (cystic fibrosis and emphysema), and trypsinogen (a model enzyme). Dry powders were formed in which stability and activity are maintained and which are fine enough to be inhaled and reach the deep lung. Enhancement of apparent activity after CAN-BD processing was also observed in some formulation and processing conditions. © 2008 The Author(s).

doi:10.1097/00005537-200409000-00012
Title:Laryngeal findings in users of combination corticosteroid and bronchodilator therapy
Authors:N. MirzaS.K. SchwartzD. Antin-Ozerkis
Absract:Educational Objective: At the conclusion of this article, the readers should be able to 1) describe the laryngeal findings in patients who use combination therapy for asthma, 2) discuss the mechanism of laryngeal irritation from the use of inhalers, and 3) describe possible mechanisms for reducing laryngeal irritation and secondary dysphonia from the use of inhalers. Objectives: To describe voice changes and laryngeal findings in patients who are started on combination corticosteroid and bronchodilator therapy in the form of a dry powder inhaler (DPI). Study Design: Retrospective, single-subject design. Methods: Retrospective review of 10 consecutive patients meeting inclusion criteria, who presented at the voice center with more than 4 weeks of dysphonia after being started on a combination form of asthma medication for control and maintenance therapy. All patients were nonsmokers and without history of previous identification or excision of vocal pathology. All patients were treated previously with a proton pump inhibitor for gastroesophageal reflux. Laryngeal videostroboscopic evaluations were performed on all patients. Patients were asked to complete a questionnaire regarding their perceived voice change and history of medical maintenance therapy for asthma. Results: Dysphonia was present in the patients selected for greater than 4 weeks. Patients had been switched to combination therapy after previously using traditional two-drug asthma regimens. In eight of nine patients, the vocal folds demonstrated areas of hyperemia, with plaque-like changes on the surface mucosa. Reduced amplitude of vibration and a reduction in mucosal wave propagation were present on videostroboscopy. Questionnaires revealed that all patients were initiated on combination DPI treatment within the last 6 months. Conclusions: Dysphonia caused by a change in the surface mucosa is a side effect from the use of DPI therapy for asthma. The high-impact force during inhalation of the medication and carrier leads to deposition of particles in the upper airway. We believe the extent of mucosal irritation can be minimized by patient education in the proper delivery of DPI. In some cases, however, return of the two medications delivered separately was necessary. The irritation of the laryngeal mucosa and return of normal vibratory parameters occurred in all patients.

pui:34126852
Title:Balancing safety and efficacy in pediatric asthma management
Authors:D.P. Skoner
Absract:In the treatment of childhood asthma, balancing safety and efficacy is key to achieving optimal therapeutic benefit. Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), because of their efficacy, remain a cornerstone in managing persistent pediatric asthma, but also are associated with significant adverse effects, including growth suppression. Consequently, careful attention must be given to balancing their safety and efficacy, which should include an understanding of airway patency and systemic absorption (dose, disease severity, propellant and lipophilicity of inhalant), bioavailability (inhalation technique, propellant, delivery devices, and hepatic first-pass metabolism), techniques for using minimum effective doses (dosing time, add-on therapy), and reduction of other exacerbating conditions (allergens, influenza, upper-respiratory diseases). The growth-suppressive effects of ICS may be most evident in children with: 1) mild asthma because the relatively high airway patency may facilitate increased levels of deposition and steroid absorption in more distal airways, and 2) evening dosing that may reduce nocturnal growth hormone activity. A step-down approach targeting a minimum effective dose and once-daily morning dosing is suggested for achieving the most acceptable safety/efficacy balance with ICS. The achievement of regular, safe, and correct ICS use requires significant knowledge and time for both caregiver and patient. Chromones, methylxanthines, long-acting β-agonists, and leukotriene receptor antagonists are currently available alternatives to ICS for the control of persistent childhood asthma. Chromones are safe but, like methylxanthines, are difficult to use and frequently result in compromised effectiveness. Long-acting β-agonists are not recommended as monotherapy for persistent asthma. Several factors that support leukotriene receptor antagonists as a therapeutic option for mild-to-moderate persistent pediatric asthma include established efficacy, good safety profiles, and simple, oral dosing. Physicians must evaluate and compare the balance of safety and efficacy for each agent to determine the appropriate asthma therapy for individual patients.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(00)00397-5
Title:The physico-chemical properties of salmeterol and fluticasone propionate in different solvent environments
Authors:Y. MichaelB.Z. ChowdhryI.C. AshurstM.J. SnowdenC. Davies-CuttingS. Gray
Absract:The physico-chemical properties of two anti-asthmatic drugs, salmeterol xinafoate and fluticasone propionate, have been studied in both aqueous and non-aqueous solvent environments. Ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) spectroscopy, fluorescence spectroscopy and electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) have been used to characterise the interaction of the drugs in 70:30 (v/v) methanol/water solutions. First derivative UV-Vis spectra measurements indicate that an interaction takes place between the two drugs in a binary solvent system. Fluorescence studies indicate that an increase in the concentration of fluticasone propionate results in a decrease in the fluorescence signal of the salmeterol for mixed solutions of the drugs. Analysis of a mixture of the two drug solutions using mass spectrometry also shows evidence of salmeterol-fluticasone propionate interaction and dimer formation with respect to both the salmeterol and the fluticasone propionate. Model metered dose inhalers (MDI) of both individual samples and mixtures of the drugs were formulated as suspensions in solvent CFC-113. The extent of deposition onto different inhaler components, such as the aluminium alloy canister, Teflon coated canister and the metering valve was evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of the methanol/water washings of the deposited drug(s). Changing the nature of the surface properties of the container resulted in a significant difference in the extent of deposition. The deposition of the individual drugs was found to increase as the dispersion concentration of the drug increases. However, the formulation based on a combination of the two drugs was found to show different deposition behaviour compared to the individual drug formulations. The deposition of the drugs, onto the aluminium alloy canister and the metering valve, decreases as the combined dispersion concentration of the two drug increases. Copyright (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2020.119602
Title:A study on polymorphic forms of rifampicin for inhaled high dose delivery in tuberculosis treatment
Authors:P. KhadkaP.C. HillB. ZhangR. KatareJ. DummerS.C. Das
Absract:Rifampicin is a first-line, highly effective drug currently used orally as a part of a lengthy multi-drug regimen against tuberculosis (TB). Despite the potential of inhaled therapy as an effective approach for TB treatment, an inhalable formulation of rifampicin has not yet been developed for clinical use. In order to do so, it is necessary to evaluate its solid-state properties, which regulate important characteristics like solubility, dissolution, aerosolization, stability and bioavailability. In this study, a crystallization technique and spray drying were used to prepare inhalable rifampicin formulations. Spray drying yielded amorphous formulation of rifampicin while crystalline dihydrate and pentahydrate formulations were obtained by crystallization. The powders were evaluated for their solid-state properties, in vitro aerosolization and aerosolization stability for three months when stored at different relative humidity conditions. All formulations had a mean particle size smaller than 3.8 µm and had a fine particle fraction (FPF) higher than 58.0%. Amorphous and crystalline dihydrate formulations showed no change in aerosolization parameters (emitted dose and FPF) upon storage for three months. The amorphous and pentahydrate formulations were found to undergo oxidative degradation upon storage, and a decrease in their drug content was observed. Among the formulations prepared, rifampicin dihydrate formulation showed the least degradation over the three months period. The inhalable rifampicin formulations prepared in this study, being excipient free, have the potential to be delivered as inhaled dry powder high-dose rifampicin to the lungs for effective treatment of TB.

doi:10.1007/s40199-019-00317-9
Title:The effect of metal salts on aerosol performance of spray dried carrier-free formulations of levofloxacin
Authors:A. BarazeshK. GilaniM. RouiniM.A. Barghi
Absract:Purpose: Metal salts are used in formulation of dry powder inhalers (DPIs) for different purposes. Recently the role of these salts in production of small, dense but highly dispersible particles has emerged. In this study the effect of some such salts on dispersibility and respirability of spray dried levofloxacin formulations was evaluated in normal and reduced inhalation air flow or by increasing powder filling in capsules. Methods: levofloxacin was co-spray dried with different concentrations of common metal chlorides (NaCl, KCl, CaCl@sub_begin2@sub_end and MgCl@sub_begin2@sub_end) either with or without leucine as dispersibility enhancer. Particle size, moisture, morphology, triboelectrification tendency and fine particle fraction (FPF) of resulting powders were evaluated. In addition, the effect of these salts and leucine on dispersibility of resulting powders in reduced air flow rate and increased capsule filling mass were evaluated. Results: Presence of higher tested concentrations of divalent cations increased water content, and reduced FPF significantly. Addition of leucine reduced water content and electrostatic charge, increased particle size and FPF and improved spray drying yield significantly. Lower concentrations of salts did not affect FPF of leucine containing powders significantly, but presence of 2.5% NaCl or MgCl@sub_begin2@sub_end preserved the dispersibility in higher capsule fillings. A 2.5% concentration of NaCl in such formulations preserved dispersibility in lower air flows. Conclusion: Higher amounts of divalent salts increases triboelectrification and moisture absorption, and reduces FPF. Lower concentrations of NaCl could not improve FPF of leucine containing formulations significantly, but preserves dispersibility in low air flows and high capsule fillings. [Figure not available: see fulltext.]

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2018.08.058
Title:Effect of powder properties on the aerosolization performance of nanoporous mannitol particles as dry powder inhalation carriers
Authors:X. ZhangZ. ZhaoY. CuiF. LiuZ. HuangY. HuangR. ZhangT. FreemanX. LuX. PanW. TanC. Wu
Absract:Carrier based dry powder inhalers (DPIs) are common vehicles for pulmonary delivery of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), thus powder properties of carrier would generate a pronounced impact on the two dominant delivery stages of the DPIs. In our previous study, a novel modified carrier, the nanoporous mannitol carriers (NPMCs) was prepared to achieve satisfactory aerosolization performance. While the aerosolization performance enhancement mechanism of NPMCs based DPI was still uncovered. The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between the powder property of NPMCs and the aerosolization performance of their corresponding DPI formulations. Particle size analysis of NPMCs was assessed by Sympatec® dynamic laser diffraction. Powder property of NPMCs was performed by FT4 powder rheometer. Aerosolization performance was evaluated by the next generation impactor to simulate the deposition profile of NPMCs based DPI formulations in respiratory tract. Similar particle size distribution was observed among the NPMCs formulations (p > 0.05), which were appropriate for DPIs. And NPMCs exhibited superior flowability, aeration and permeability behaviors in FT4 tests, meanwhile higher fine particle fraction (FPF) values in NGI test comparing to the nonporous mannitol. Further, two positive correlations between the basic flow energy (BFE) and ρ@sub_beginb@sub_end (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.901), specific energy and ρ@sub_beginb@sub_end values (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.912) were obtained in NPMC systems, respectively. The relationship between BFE and FPF was explored quantitatively as well, and it revealed an inverse correlation (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.934). Therefore, the aerosolization performance enhancement of NPMCs based DPI could be reasonably explained by powder property of carriers quantified by the FT4 powder rheometer, which was a promising tool for the design of DPI carrier.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.12.046
Title:Probing the particulate microstructure of the aerodynamic particle size distribution of dry powder inhaler combination products
Authors:M.W. JetzerB.D. MorricalM. SchneiderS. EdgeG. Imanidis
Absract:The in-vitro aerosol performance of two combination dry powder inhaler (DPI) products, Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end and Seretide@sup_begin®@sup_end Diskus@sup_begin®@sup_end were investigated with single particle aerosol mass spectrometry (SPAMS). The in-vitro pharmaceutical performance is markedly different for both inhalers. Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end generates a higher fine particle fraction (FPF <5 μm) and a much higher relative extra fine particle fraction (eFPF <2 μm). In terms of the composition of the aerodynamic particle size distribution (APSD), it could be verified with SPAMS that overall Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end emits a significantly higher number of fine and extra fine particles with a median aerodynamic diameter (MAD) of 2.1 μm while Seretide@sup_begin®@sup_end Diskus@sup_begin®@sup_end had a larger MAD of 3.1 μm. Additionally, the interactions between the two active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in both products are different. While Seretide@sup_begin®@sup_end Diskus@sup_begin®@sup_end emits a significant (37%) number of co-associated API particles, only a negligible number of co-associated API particles were found in Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end (<1%). A major difference with Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end is that it contains magnesium stearate (MgSt) as a second excipient besides lactose in a so-called ‘dual excipient’ platform. The data generated using SPAMS suggested that nearly all of the beclomethasone dipropionate particles in Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end also contain MgSt and must therefore be co-associated with this additional excipient. This may help explain why beclomethasone dipropionate in Foster@sup_begin®@sup_end NEXThaler@sup_begin®@sup_end forms less particle co-associations with the second API, formoterol fumarate, shows a lower cohesive strength in respect to beclomethasone itself and why both APIs exhibit superior detachment from the carrier as evidenced by the increased eFPF and smaller MAD.

doi:10.1208/s12249-017-0793-2
Title:Proliposome Powders for the Generation of Liposomes: the Influence of Carbohydrate Carrier and Separation Conditions on Crystallinity and Entrapment of a Model Antiasthma Steroid
Authors:I. KhanS. YousafS. SubramanianM.A. AlhnanW. AhmedA. Elhissi
Absract:Formulation effects on the entrapment of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) in liposomes generated by hydration of proliposomes were studied, using the high-density dispersion medium deuterium oxide in comparison to deionized water (DW). Proliposomes incorporating BDP (2 mol% of the lipid phase consisting of soya phosphatidylcholine (SPC) and cholesterol; 1:1) were manufactured, using lactose monohydrate (LMH), sorbitol or d-mannitol as carbohydrate carriers (1:5 w/w lipid to carrier). Following hydration of proliposomes, separation of BDP-entrapped liposomes from the unentrapped (free) BDP at an optimized centrifugation duration of 90 min and a centrifugation force of 15,500g were identified. The dispersion medium was found to have a major influence on separation of BDP-entrapped liposomes from the unentrapped drug. Entrapment efficiency values were higher than 95% as estimated when DW was used. By contrast, the entrapment efficiency was 19.69 ± 5.88, 28.78 ± 4.69 and 34.84 ± 3.62% upon using D@sub_begin2@sub_endO as a dispersion medium (for LMH-, sorbitol- and d-mannitol-based proliposomes, respectively). The similarity in size of liposomes and BDP crystals was found to be responsible for co-sedimentation of liposomes and free BDP crystals upon centrifugation in DW, giving rise to the falsely high entrapment values estimated. This was remedied by the use of D@sub_begin2@sub_endO as confirmed by light microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (@sup_begin1@sup_endHNMR), X-ray diffraction (XRD) and entrapment studies. This study showed that carrier type has a significant influence on the entrapment of BDP in liposomes generated from proliposomes, and using D@sub_begin2@sub_endO is essential for accurate determination of steroid entrapment in the vesicles.

doi:10.1166/jbn.2016.2162
Title:Synthesis and characterization of inhalable flavonoid nanoparticle for lung cancer cell targeting
Authors:W.-H. LeeC.-Y. LooH.-X. OngD. TrainiP.M. YoungR. Rohanizadeh
Absract:Current cancer treatments are not adequate to cure cancer disease, as most chemotherapeutic drugs do not differentiate between cancerous and non-cancerous cells; which lead to systemic toxicity and adverse effects. We have developed a promising approach to deliver a potential anti-cancer compound (curcumin) for lung cancer treatment through pulmonary delivery. Three different sizes of curcumin micellar nanoparticles (Cur-NPs) were fabricated and their cytotoxicity effects (proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle progression) were evaluated against non-small-cell lung cancer, human lung carcinoma (A549) and human lung adenocarcinoma (Calu-3). The in vitro cytotoxicity assay showed that Cur-NPs were more effective to kill lung cancer cells compared to DMSO-solubilised raw curcumin. The potency of the anti-cancer killing activities was size-dependent. Both raw curcumin and Cur-NPs were not toxic to healthy lung cells (BEAS-2B). Smaller Cur-NPs accumulated within nucleus, membrane and cytoplasm. Cur-NPs also induced apoptosis and caused G2/M arrest in both A549 and Calu-3 cell lines. Compared to raw curcumin, Cur-NPs were more effective in suppressing the expression of the inflammatory marker, Interleukin-8 (IL8). The aerosol performance of Cur-NPs was characterized using the next generation impactor (NGI). All Cur-NPs showed promising aerosolization property with mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) and geometric standard deviation (GSD) ranging between 4.8-5.2 and 2.0-2.1, respectively. This study suggests that inhaled curcumin nanoparticles could potentially be used for lung cancer treatment with minimal side effects.

doi:10.3109/1061186X.2013.829078
Title:Nanotechnology approaches for inhalation treatment of fibrosis
Authors:R. SavlaT. Minko
Absract:Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive monogenetic disease that afflicts nearly 70000 patients worldwide. The mutation results in the accumulation of viscous mucus in multiple organs especially in the lungs, liver and pancreas. High associated morbidity and mortality is caused by CF due to the lack of effective therapies. It is widely accepted that morbidity and mortality caused by CF is primarily due to the respiratory manifestations of the disease. Consequently, several approaches were recently developed for treatment of lung complications of CF. However, the lack of effective methods for delivery and especially targeted delivery of therapeutics specifically to lung tissues and cells limits the efficiency of the therapy. Local pulmonary delivery of therapeutics has two major advantages over systemic application. First, it enhances the accumulation of therapeutics specifically in the lungs and therefore increases the efficiency of the treatment. Second, local lung delivery substantially prevents the penetration of the delivered drug into the systemic circulation limiting adverse side effects of the treatment on other organs and tissues. This review is focused on different approaches to the treatment of respiratory manifestations of CF as well as on methods of pulmonary delivery of therapeutics. © 2013 Informa UK Ltd. All rights reserved: reproduction in whole or part not permitted.

doi:10.2147/JAA.S14743
Title:Lung penetration and patient adherence considerations in the management of asthma: Role of extra-fine formulations
Authors:N. ScichiloneM. SpataforaS. BattagliaR. ArrigoA. BenfanteV. Bellia
Absract:The mainstay of management in asthma is inhalation therapy at the target site, with direct delivery of the aerosolized drug into the airways to treat inflammation and relieve obstruction. Abundant evidence is available to support the concept that inflammatory and functional changes at the level of the most peripheral airways strongly contribute to the complexity and heterogeneous manifestations of asthma. It is now largely accepted that there is a wide range of clinical phenotypes of the disease, characterized primarily by small airways involvement. Thus, an appropriate diagnostic algorithm cannot exclude biological and functional assessment of the peripheral airways. Similarly, achievement of optimal control of the disease and appropriate management of specific phenotypes of asthma should be based on drugs (and delivery options) able to distribute uniformly along the bronchial tree and to reach the most peripheral airways. Products developed with the Modulite® technology platform have been demonstrated to meet these aims. Recent real-life studies have shown clearly that extra-fine fixed-combination inhaled therapy provides better asthma control than non-extra-fine formulations, thus translating the activity of the drugs into greater effectiveness in clinical practice. We suggest that in patients with incomplete asthma control despite good lung function, involvement of the peripheral airways should always be suspected. When this is the case, treatments targeting both the large and small airways should be used to improve asthma control. Above all, it is emphasized that patient adherence with prescribed medications can contribute to clinical success, and clinicians should always be aware of the role played by patients themselves in determining the success or failure of treatment. © 2013 Scichilone et al, publisher and licensee Dove Medical Press Ltd.

doi:10.1111/j.1365-2125.2011.03982.x
Title:The availability and age-appropriateness of medicines authorized for children in the Netherlands
Authors:D.A. van Riet-NalesK.E. de JagerA.F. SchobbenT.C.G. EgbertsC.M. Rademaker
Absract:Aim: To study the number of medicines and active chemical entities that are authorized and commercially available for children in the Netherlands and to evaluate the age-appropriateness of the available paediatric medicines. Methods: The availability of paediatric medicines and active chemical entities was studied with the help of a Dutch medicines database and the Summary of Product Characteristics. Medicines were categorized with respect to their route of administration, type of oral dosage form and therapeutic category. The age-appropriateness was assessed on three aspects: dose capability, suitability of the dosage form and inclusion of potentially harmful excipients. Results: Three thousand five hundred and forty-two paediatric medicines containing 703 different active chemical entities were identified. This equalled half of all the medicines and chemical entities available for human use. The percentage of paediatric medicines increased with age and varied for the route of administration from 22% (dermal) to 81% (inhalation) and for the therapeutic category from 11% (uro-genital, sex hormones) to 89% (anti-parasites). The appropriateness of the paediatric medicines with respect to their authorization status, dose capability and dosage form increased with age from 27-88%. Fifty-two percent of all oral paediatric liquid formulations contained a potentially harmful excipient. Conclusion: This study confirms the limited availability of paediatric medicines for a broad range of therapeutic areas and shows that paediatric medicines may not be age-appropriate, even if authorized. While confirming the need for a legislative incentive, the results also provide baseline information for an estimation of the effect of the European Paediatric Regulation in the near future. © 2011 The Authors. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology © 2011 The British Pharmacological Society.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2010.02.006
Title:Formulation, characterization and pulmonary deposition of nebulized celecoxib encapsulated nanostructured lipid carriers
Authors:R.R. PatlollaM. ChouguleA.R. PatelT. JacksonP.N.V. TataM. Singh
Absract:The aim of the current study was to encapsulate celecoxib (Cxb) in the nanostructured lipid carrier (Cxb-NLC) nanoparticles and evaluate the lung disposition of nanoparticles following nebulization in Balb/c mice. Cxb-NLC nanoparticles were prepared with Cxb, Compritol, Miglyol and sodium taurocholate using high-pressure homogenization. Cxb-NLC nanoparticles were characterized for physical and aerosol properties. In-vitro cytotoxicity studies were performed with A549 cells. The lung deposition and pharmacokinetic parameters of Cxb-NLC and Cxb solution (Cxb-Soln) formulations were determined using the Inexpose™ system and Pari LC star jet nebulizer. The particle size and entrapment efficiency of the Cxb-NLC formulation were 217±20nm and >90%, respectively. The Cxb-NLC released the drug in controlled fashion, and in-vitro aerosolization of Cxb-NLC formulation showed an FPF of 75.6±4.6%, MMAD of 1.6±0.13μm and a GSD of 1.2±0.21. Cxb-NLC showed dose and time dependent cytotoxicity against A549 cells. Nebulization of Cxb-NLC demonstrated 4 fold higher AUC@sub_begint@sub_end/D in lung tissues compared to the Cxb-Soln. The systemic clearance of Cxb-NLC was slower (0.93l/h) compared to the Cxb-Soln (20.03l/h). Cxb encapsulated NLC were found to be stable and aerodynamic properties were within the respirable limits. Aerosolization of Cxb-NLC improved the Cxb pulmonary bioavailability compared to solution formulation which will potentially lead to better patient compliance with minimal dosing intervals. © 2010.

doi:10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2005.04.008
Title:Development of pharmaceutical heroin preparations for medical co-prescription to opioid dependent patients
Authors:M.G. KlousW.V.D. BrinkJ.M.V. ReeJ.H. Beijnen
Absract:Presently, there is a considerable interest in heroin-assisted treatment: co-prescription of heroin to certain subgroups of chronic, treatment-resistant, opioid dependent patients. In 2002, nine countries had planned (Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Spain) or ongoing (Germany, The Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom) clinical trials on this subject. These trials (and the routine heroin-assisted treatment programs that might result) will need pharmaceutical heroin (diacetylmorphine) to prescribe to the patients. Research into the development of pharmaceutical forms of heroin for prescription to addicts can benefit from the large amount of knowledge that already exists regarding this substance. Therefore, in this paper we review the physicochemical and pharmaceutical properties of diacetylmorphine and the clinically investigated routes of administration, as well as routes of administration utilised on the street in the context of developing pharmaceutical heroin formulations for prescription to addicts. Patient acceptability of the formulation is essential, because heroin-assisted treatment is aimed at treatment-resistant addicts, who often have to be encouraged to participate (or to maintain participation) in a treatment program. This means that the most suitable products would have pharmacokinetic profiles mimicking that of diacetylmorphine for injection, with rapid peak concentrations of diacetylmorphine and 6-acetylmorphine, ensuring the 'rush effect' and the sustained presence of morphine(-6-glucuronide) creating the prolonged euphoria. Diacetylmorphine for inhalation after volatilisation (via 'chasing the dragon') seems to be a suitable candidate, while intranasal and oral diacetylmorphine are currently thought to be unsuitable. However, oral and intranasal delivery systems might be improved and become suitable for use by heroin dependent patients. © 2005 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1073/pnas.0405557101
Title:A cationic lipid-formulated plasmid DNA vaccine confers sustained antibody-mediated protection against aerosolized anthrax spores
Authors:G. HermansonV. WhitlowS. ParkerK. TonskyD. RusalovM. FerrariP. LalorM. KomaiR. MereM. BellK. BrennemanA. MateczunT. EvansD. KaslowD. GallowayP. Hobart
Absract:DNA vaccines provide an attractive technology platform against bioterrorism agents due to their safety record in humans and ease of construction, testing, and manufacture. We have designed monovalent and bivalent anthrax plasmid DNA (pDNA) vaccines encoding genetically detoxified protective antigen (PA) and lethal factor (LF) proteins and tested their immunogenicity and ability to protect rabbits from an aerosolized inhalation spore challenge. Immune responses after two or three injections of cationic lipid-formulated PA, PA plus LF, or LF pDNAs were at least equivalent to two doses of anthrax vaccine adsorbed (AVA). High titers of anti-PA, anti-LF, and neutralizing antibody to lethal toxin (Letx) were achieved in all rabbits. Eight or nine animals in each group were challenged with 100x LD@sub_begin50@sub_end of aerosolized anthrax spores 5 or 9 weeks after vaccination. An additional 10 animals vaccinated with PA pDNA were challenged >7 months postvaccination. All animals receiving PA or PA plus LF pDNA vaccines were protected. In addition, 5 of 9 animals receiving LF pDNA survived, and the time to death was significantly delayed in the others. Groups receiving three immunizations with PA or PA plus LF pDNA showed no increase in anti-PA, anti-LF, or Letx neutralizing antibody titers postchallenge, suggesting little or no spore germination. In contrast, titer increases were seen in AVA animals, and in surviving animals vaccinated with LF pDNA alone. Preclinical evaluation of this cationic lipid-formulated bivalent PA and LF vaccine is complete, and the vaccine has received U.S. Food and Drug Administration Investigational New Drug allowance.

doi:10.1177/1932296819897652
Title:Faster absorption and greater early insulin action of dance 501 inhaled human insulin vs. s.c. insulin lispro in patients with type 2 diabetes
Authors:E. ZijlstraL. Plum-MoerschelM. ErmerO. KleinL. PorterB. BuecheM.-C. KuoT. LeB.J. StedmanM. RhodesJ.S. Patton
Absract:Objective:Dance 501 (INH) is a novel liquid formulation of human insulin for inhalation with a small handheld aerosol device.In this randomized, 6-period, cross-over trial, INH was investigated during 10-hour glucose clamps to assess itsdose-response, its time-concentration (pharmacokinetics), and time-action profiles (pharmacodynamics) vs.subcutaneous insulin lispro (LIS).Method:A total of 24 subjects with type 2 diabetes participated (N=5 female, N=19 male; mean±SD age 61.8±7.9 years;BMI 30.4±2.6 kg/m, A1c 7.4±0.7%, diabetes duration 10.4±4.8 years, non-smokers). LIS was injected at low (8 U),medium (16 U), and high (32 U) doses; INH was inhaled at equivalent doses, assuming a 13% relative biopotency.Result:INH was absorbed faster than LIS (median differences -15 min, p<0.0001), while maximum and total insulinexposure were similar (p>0.3) for all dose comparisons. The faster kinetics resulted in more rapid onset of action(median differences -6.5 to -20 min, p<0.02) and greater action in the first hour after administration (median relativedifferences 45 to 107%, p<0.05). INH and LIS demonstrated a linear dose-response relationship and comparabletotal pharmacodynamic action (p>0.2 for comparison at each dose level). Median relative bioavailability of INH was11.9, 13.0 and 13.8% at low-medium-high dose levels, respectively and biopotency of INH was 12.3, 13.0 and12.2%, respectively. No safety issues, no cough, and no acute changes in spirometry were observed with anyinhalation.Conclusion:Dance 501 showed faster insulin absorption, more rapid onset of action, and greater early insulin action vs. LIS.From 1 hour post-dosing, insulin exposure and action were comparable between treatments. Inhalations were welltolerated and without cough. Dance 501 may become a valuable and clinically meaningful option for insulintreatment in patients with type 2 diabetes.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.09.018
Title:Dry powder inhaler formulations of poorly water-soluble itraconazole: A balance between in-vitro dissolution and in-vivo distribution is necessary
Authors:Z. HuangL. LinC. Mc GoverinH. LiuL. WangQ.T. ZhouM. LuC. Wu
Absract:Formulating poorly water-soluble drug, itraconazole (ITZ), as dry powder inhaler (DPI) may be more effective for the treatment of invasive pulmonary Aspergillosis than intravenous injection and oral administration. It is necessary to improve the dissolution of ITZ because the alveolar lining fluid is limited and thus the dissolution of ITZ in the lung may be slow and incomplete. However, too fast dissolution may result in over-absorption into the circulation and thus insufficient distribution in the lung. The purpose of this study is to understand the relationship between in-vitro dissolution and in-vivo distribution of ITZ from DPI formulations. Two DPI formulations (F1 and F2) with identical compositions and similar aerodynamic behaviors were fabricated by hot melt extrusion and thus jet-milling. ITZ was formulated with mannitol as fine solid crystal suspension system to effectively improve its dissolution. In-vitro dissolution tests and in-vivo pharmacokinetic studies indicated that F1 released faster than F2 under both sink and non-sink conditions, but exhibited a lower lung retention and higher plasma absorption than F2. These results suggested that although dissolution enhancement of poorly water-soluble drugs in pulmonary delivery may be necessary to overcome problems such as local irritation and quick elimination by macrophages, it may have an impact on the distribution of the drug between the lung and the plasma. A balance between airway dissolution and systemic absorption should be taken into consideration when developing DPI formulations of poorly water-soluble ITZ.

doi:10.1208/s12249-017-0847-5
Title:Calcium Phosphate Particles as Pulmonary Delivery System for Interferon-α in Mice
Authors:T. MorçölJ.M. WeidnerA. MehtaS.J.D. BellT. Block
Absract:Systemically administered interferons are rapidly cleared from the circulation thus requiring frequent dosing to maintain the therapeutic levels of circulating interferon. This is particularly problematic for their use in the treatment of chronic diseases. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential of proprietary calcium phosphate (CaP) particles to deliver biologically active interferon alpha (IFNα) via the lungs into systemic circulation. Recombinant human IFNα-2a was formulated with proprietary CaP particles. In vitro biological activity of IFNα was assessed for its potential to activate IFN-induced cellular pathways in HEK-Blu-IFN α/β cell cultures. Antiviral activity was evaluated against vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) infection of HeLa cells. Male BALB/c mice were used to evaluate the absorption of IFNα from CaP-IFNα across the lungs following intratracheal (IT) instillation. Serum IFNα concentrations up to 9 h post-treatment were determined. Data were analyzed to obtain pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters. Data from these studies indicated that IFNα formulated with CaP retains its biological activity, and it is transported into circulation in a dose-dependent manner. PK analysis showed larger than two-fold area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC) for CaP-IFNα compared to non-formulated IFNα administered IT. The IFNα formulated with CaP had two-fold longer half-life (t1/2) and mean residence time (MRT) relative to IFNα alone administered by injection. Clearance of CaP-IFNα was slower than IFNα administered IM or IT. Relative bioavailability of CaP-IFNα was 1.3-fold of IFNα injection and twofold of IFNα administered IT. Furthermore, inhalation of aerosolized CaP did not indicate any lung toxicity in animals.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2012.10.034
Title:Triboelectric characteristics of mannitol based formulations for the application in dry powder inhalers
Authors:S. KarnerN.A. Urbanetz
Absract:Inhalation powders may be charged by triboelectrification upon aerosolization and release of the powder from the inhaler device due to frequent contacts and high impact velocities between the particles and the inhaler material. This is particularly challenging in dry powder inhaler (DPI) technology where usually adhesive mixtures of carrier particles in the size range of 50 μm-200 μm and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) particles in the size range of 0.5 μm-5 μm are used. In these adhesive mixtures it is crucial that the API particles adhere to the coarser carrier particles to ensure good flowability and dosing behavior. However during aerosolization the API particles should detach from the carriers in order to reach the deeper lung. This means that the performance of such adhesive mixtures used in DPI devices is strongly affected by inter-particle forces which are further affected by electrostatic charge. Sign and magnitude of the arising charge is on the one hand influenced by the contacting material, relative humidity and impact velocity and on the other hand by particle characteristics like particle size, particle shape and surface roughness.For these reasons the aim of this work is to investigate which factors actually influence the charging process during powder aerosolization and release from the inhaler and how it can be controlled. In the present study the influence and interactions of four practice-relevant factors is checked using statistical design of experiments. These are the carrier particle size, the aerosolization air flow rate, the API content in the adhesive mixtures and the addition of carrier fines < 40 μm. The experiments are performed using the Novolizer® as DPI device. Electrostatic charge measurements are conducted using an open-end Faraday cup. The study revealed that the netcharge increases with an increasing amount of carrier fines and an increasing air flow rate. Further the netcharge decreases with increasing particle size and the presence of API. Finally investigations on the dependence of tribo-charging on the number of actuations of the device revealed that the netcharge arising on adhesive mixtures released in 50 consecutive doses from the DPI is almost the same for each dose at an air flow rate of 60. l/min whereas at 90. l/min there is a noticeable trend of decreasing netcharge over the number of actuations. © 2012 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-06-1480
Title:Phase I study of aerosolized SLIT cisplatin in the treatment of patients with carcinoma of the lung
Authors:B.P.H. WittgenP.W.A. KunstK. Van Der BornA.W. Van WijkW. PerkinsF.G. PilkiewiczR. Perez-SolerS. NicholsonG.J. PetersP.E. Postmus
Absract:Purpose: To investigate the safety and pharmacokinetics of aerosolized Sustained Release Lipid Inhalation Targeting (SLIT) Cisplatin in patients with lung carcinoma. Experimental Design: Phase I, dose-escalating study of SLIT Cisplatin given in two sessions daily. Safety data, including laboratory variables, adverse events, pulmonary function tests, and radiographic imaging, were collected and analyzed for all patients to determine toxicity. Pharmacokinetic monitoring was done during the first course. Results: Seventeen patients and one tracheostomy patient on compassionate use received treatment. Aerosolized cisplatin was well tolerated. No dose-limiting toxicity was observed at the maximum delivered dose. Safety data showed no hematologic toxicity, nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, or neurotoxicity. Most common adverse events were nausea (64.7%), vomiting (47.1%), dyspnea (64.7%), fatigue (64.7%), and hoarseness (47.1%). Pharmacokinetic data showed very low plasma platinum levels only with the longest repeated inhalations. Common Toxicity Criteria grade 2 decrease in forced expiratory volume in one second and diffusing lung capacity for carbon monoxide after one course occurred both in two patients and grade one decrease in forced expiratory volume in one second and diffusing lung capacity for carbon monoxide in six and five patients, respectively. Direct airway deposition via the tracheostomy resulted in clinical deterioration after two cycles best described as bronchitis, completely reversible within days. Overall response: stable disease in 12 patients and progressive disease in 4 patients (one patient received one cycle). Conclusions: Aerosolized liposomal cisplatin was found to be feasible and safe. © 2007 American Association for Cancer Research.

doi:10.1089/152091502320798204
Title:Technosphere™/insulin - A new approach for effective delivery of human insulin via the pulmonary route
Authors:A. PfütznerA.E. MannS.S. Steiner
Absract:The development of pulmonary insulin formulation offers an attractive alternative to the current requirement of repeated subcutaneous (s.c.) injections for insulin administration. Technosphere™/Insulin is a formulation of regular human insulin that was designed to produce an efficient transport of insulin across the respiratory epithelium into the systemic circulation. Several studies using the euglycemic clamp technique were performed in healthy volunteers and patients with Type 2 diabetes to assess the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of Technosphere/Insulin. The investigations revealed a very rapid systemic insulin uptake (insulin T@sub_beginmax@sub_end approximately 12-14 min), a fast onset of action (maximum activity approximately 20-30 min), and a short duration of action (approximately 2-3 h) in healthy volunteers and in patients with Type 2 diabetes. In the first study, employing a commercially available inhaler, the relative bioavailability (compared with s.c. injections) was initially reported to be 26% for the first 3 h and 16% for the entire observation period of 6 h. With the development of a specific inhaler adapted to the physical properties of Technosphere/Insulin, the MedTone™ Inhaler, relative bioavailability was 50% for the first 3 h and 30% over the entire 6-h period. A clear linearity of systemic insulin uptake was observed in a study employing 12 healthy volunteers inhaling doses of 25, 50, and 100 IU. Repeated inhalation of 100 IU of Technosphere/Insulin by 12 patients with Type 2 diabetes revealed a lower variability in comparison with published s.c. injection data from healthy volunteers. This new Technosphere/Insulin formulation was well tolerated, and no serious adverse events were reported in any of the investigations. Given its attractive time-action profile, Technosphere/Insulin may become a suitable alternative to s.c. injection for prandial insulin delivery, especially in patients with Type 2 diabetes, if the long-term safety, tolerability, and efficacy of this pulmonary insulin are established and confirmed in future studies.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.9b00908
Title:Design of Gadoteridol-Loaded Cationic Liposomal Adjuvant CAF01 for MRI of Lung Deposition of Intrapulmonary Administered Particles
Authors:A. ThakurF. RoseS.R. AnsariP. KochV. MartiniS.L. OvesenB. QuistorffS. MaritimF. HyderP. AndersenD. ChristensenY. MoriC. Foged
Absract:Designing effective and safe tuberculosis (TB) subunit vaccines for inhalation requires identification of appropriate antigens and adjuvants and definition of the specific areas to target in the lungs. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) enables high spatial resolution, but real-time anatomical and functional MRI of lungs is challenging. Here, we describe the design of a novel gadoteridol-loaded cationic adjuvant formulation 01 (CAF01) for MRI-guided vaccine delivery of the clinically tested TB subunit vaccine candidate H56/CAF01. Gadoteridol-loaded CAF01 liposomes were engineered by using a quality-by-design approach to (i) increase the mechanistic understanding of formulation factors governing the loading of gadoteridol and (ii) maximize the loading of gadoteridol in CAF01, which was confirmed by cryotransmission electron microscopy. The encapsulation efficiency and loading of gadoteridol were highly dependent on the buffer pH due to strong attractive electrostatic interactions between gadoteridol and the cationic lipid component. Optimal gadoteridol loading of CAF01 liposomes showed good in vivo stability and safety upon intrapulmonary administration into mice while generating 1.5-fold MRI signal enhancement associated with approximately 30% T@sub_begin1@sub_end relaxation change. This formulation principle and imaging approach can potentially be used for other mucosal nanoparticle-based formulations, species, and lung pathologies, which can readily be translated for clinical use.

doi:10.1016/j.nano.2015.08.009
Title:Prolonged vasodilatory response to nanoencapsulated sildenafil in pulmonary hypertension
Authors:M. Beck-BroichsitterA. HeckerD. KosanovicT. SchmehlT. GesslerN. WeissmannH.A. GhofraniT. KisselW. SeegerR.T. Schermuly
Absract:Direct vasodilator delivery to the airways enables a selective therapy of pulmonary hypertension (PH). However, short-term effects of the applied medication require multiple daily inhalations. Controlled release formulations (polymeric nanomedicines) offer the potential of prolonging drug effects within the respiratory tract, thereby reducing the number of necessary inhalations. In the model of U46619-elicited PH, sildenafil and two sildenafil-loaded polymeric submicron particle formulations were evaluated for their pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic characteristics and acute tolerability. Lung-delivered sildenafil caused a selective dose-dependent decline of the pulmonary arterial pressure and vascular resistance. Compared to the transient pharmacodynamic effect observed for sildenafil, the same dose of nanoencapsulated sildenafil resulted in prolongation, but not augmentation, of the pulmonary vasodilatation. An extended pharmacokinetic profile was observed for nanoencapsulated sildenafil, and nanomedicines revealed no acute toxicity. The amplification of pulmonary vasodilatory response caused by nanoencapsulation of sildenafil offers an intriguing approach to ameliorate the therapy of PH. From the Clinical Editor: Pulmonary hypertension usually results in right heart failure long term. Current medical therapy includes the use of potent vasodilators such as sildenafil. In this article, the authors investigated the use of nanoencapsulated formulation for sustained delivery via inhalation route. An extended pharmacokinetic profile was seen for this nanoformulation with little side effects. It is hoped that clinical application of this would come to fruition soon.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2011.08.010
Title:Dry powders based on PLGA nanoparticles for pulmonary delivery of antibiotics: Modulation of encapsulation efficiency, release rate and lung deposition pattern by hydrophilic polymers
Authors:F. UngaroI. D'AngeloC. ColettaR. D'Emmanuele Di Villa BiancaR. SorrentinoB. PerfettoM.A. TufanoA. MiroM.I. La RotondaF. Quaglia
Absract:Although few experimental studies have been handled so far to exploit the potential of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) in the production of dry powders for antibiotic inhalation, there has been no comprehensive study on the role played by NP composition. In this work, we try to shed light on this aspect by designing and developing a pulmonary delivery system for antibiotics, such as tobramycin (Tb), based on PLGA NPs embedded in an inert microcarrier made of lactose, referred to as nano-embedded micro-particles (NEM). At nanosize level, helper hydrophilic polymers were used to impart the desired surface, bulk and release properties to PLGA NPs prepared by a modified emulsion-solvent diffusion technique. Results showed that poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) and chitosan (CS) are essential to optimise the size and modulate the surface properties of Tb-loaded PLGA NPs, whereas the use of alginate (Alg) allows efficient Tb entrapment within NPs and its release up to one month. Optimized formulations display good in vitro antimicrobial activity against P. aeruginosa planktonic cells. Furthermore, spray-drying of the NPs with lactose yielded NEM with peculiar but promising flow and aerosolization properties, while preserving the peculiar NP features. Nonetheless, in vivo biodistribution studies showed that PVA-modified Alg/PLGA NPs reached the deep lung, while CS-modified NPs were found in great amounts in the upper airways, lining lung epithelial surfaces. In conclusion, PLGA NP composition appears to play a crucial role in determining not only the technological features of NPs but, once processed in the form of NEM, also their in vitro/in vivo deposition pattern. © 2011 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1080/08982100802610835
Title:Rifampicin-loaded liposomes for the passive targeting to alveolar macrophages: In vitro and in vivo evaluation
Authors:M. ZaruC. SinicoA. De LoguC. CaddeoF. LaiM.L. MancaA.M. Fadda
Absract:Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC), the most frequent cause of opportunistic nontuberculous pulmonary infection, is made up of a group of intracellular pathogens that are able to survive and multiply inside lung alveolar macrophages. As nebulized liposomes are reported to be effective to target antibacterial agents to macrophages, in this work we have prepared and characterized re-dispersible freeze-dried rifampicin (RFP)-loaded vesicles by using soy lecithin (SL) and a commercial, enriched mixture of soy phosphatidylcholine (Phospholipon 90, P90) with or without cholesterol. The obtained results showed that RFP could be loaded stably in SL vesicles only when cholesterol was not present in the film preparation, whereas with P90 vesicles, the highest stability was obtained with formulations prepared with P90/cholesterol 7:1 or 4:1 molar ratios. RFP-liposome aerosols were generated using an efficient high-output continuous-flow nebulizer, driven by a compressor. After the experiments, nebulization efficiency (NE%) and nebulization efficiency of the encapsulated drug (NEED%) were evaluated. The results of our study indicated that nebulization properties and viscosity of formulations prepared with the low-transition-temperature phospholipids, SL and P90, are affected by vesicle composition. However, all formulations showed a good stability during nebulization and they were able to retain more than 65% of the incorporated drug. The effect of liposome encapsulation on lung levels of RFP following aerosol inhalation was determined in rats. The in vitro intracellular activity of RFP-loaded liposomes against MAC residing in macrophage-like J774 cells was also evaluated. Results indicated that liposomes are able to inhibit the growth of MAC in infected macrophages and to reach the lower airways in rats. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2008.10.025
Title:Reverse aqueous emulsions and microemulsions in HFA227 propellant stabilized by non-ionic ethoxylated amphiphiles
Authors:U. ChokshiP. SelvamL. PorcarS.R.P. da Rocha
Absract:In this work we use in situ high-pressure tensiometry to screen non-ionic ethoxylated surfactants at the 1,1,1,2,3,3,3-heptafluoropropane (HFA227) propellant|Water (HFA227|W) interface. The EO@sub_beginn@sub_endPO@sub_begin∼30@sub_endEO@sub_beginn@sub_end series, where EO stands for ethylene oxide and PO for propylene oxide, and n the number of repeat EO units, was selected for this study based on the favorable interactions reported between HFA propellants and the PO moiety. The surfactants used in FDA-approved pressurized metered-dose inhaler formulations were also investigated. Tension measurements provide not only information on the relative activity of the different surfactants in the series, but they also serve as a guide for selecting an appropriate candidate for the formation of reverse aggregates based on the surfactant natural curvature. Moreover, the effect of ethanol and the chemistry of the surfactant tail group on the surfactant activity were also investigated. Surfactants with hydrogenated tails are not capable of forming stable water-in-HFA227 microemulsions. This is true even at very low tensions observed when in the presence of ethanol, indicating the lack of affinity between HFA227 and hydrogenated moieties-the surfactant does not tend to curve about water. On the other hand, PO-based amphiphiles can significantly reduce the tension of the HFA227|W interface. Small angle neutron scattering (SANS) and UV-vis spectroscopy results also reveal that a selected ethoxylated amphiphile (EO@sub_begin13@sub_endPO@sub_begin30@sub_endEO@sub_begin13@sub_end at 1 mM concentration), when in the presence of ethanol, is capable of forming stable cylindrical reverse aqueous microemulsions. EO@sub_begin13@sub_endPO@sub_begin30@sub_endEO@sub_begin13@sub_end is also capable of forming emulsions of water-in-HFA227 that are fairly stable against coalescence. Such dispersions are potential candidates for the delivery of small polar solutes and larger therapeutic biomolecules to and through the lungs in the form of pMDI formulations, and in other medical sprays. © 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1378/chest.120.3_suppl.89S
Title:Delivery options and devices for aerosolized therapeutics
Authors:P.J. Anderson
Absract:Although inhalation is one of the oldest modes of drug delivery, it is currently receiving renewed attention. Prior to 1987, aerosolized therapeutics were delivered via systems that relied on chlorofluorocarbon propellant systems. The subsequent ban on all nonmedical uses of these inert gases stimulated pharmaceutical companies to investigate other propellant systems. Two hydrofluoroalkanes were effective. However, in some instances, the change in propellant required reformulation of the drugs to be delivered. In some cases, bioequivalence could be achieved at lower doses with reduced toxicity. Pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) have been used to deliver many types of inhaled therapeutics since the 1960s. Their major limitation is that drug delivery and effectiveness are affected by patient factors, including coordination difficulties and problems related to breathing and breath holding in patients with airway disease. Dry-powder inhalers are being developed to deliver powdered formulations of drugs such as bronchodilators and anti-inflammatory drugs for the treatment of asthma and COPD, and, eventually, proteins, peptides, recombinant products, and gene therapeutics. These devices have been proven to be as efficient as pMDIs in clinical trials. In some cases, they deliver a greater amount of the drug to the lungs. Percentages of the emitted dose deposited in the lungs range from 15 to 40% with the current generation of these devices. Finally, metered-dose liquid inhalers also are under development. Drug deposition in the lung with devices that are currently being tested ranges from 30 to 80% of the emitted dose. The choice of delivery system depends on the effective dose, drug deposition, patient ability, patient acceptance, and cost. Patient education in the correct use of each device is essential to maximize the therapeutic benefit.

doi:10.1016/S0149-2918(00)83046-5
Title:Regional lung deposition of a technetium 99m-labeled formulation of mometasone furoate administered by hydrofluoroalkane 227 metered-dose inhaler
Authors:H. PickeringG.R. PitcairnP.H. HirstR.E. BaconS.P. NewmanM.B. AffrimeM. Marino
Absract:Background: A new inhaled suspension formulation of mometasone furoate (MF), a potent corticosteroid with minimal systemic availability, has been developed for the treatment of asthma. This formulation is delivered by metered-dose inhaler (MDI) using the nonchlorofluorocarbon propellant hydrofluoroalkane 227 (HFA-227). Objective: The primary goal of this study was to determine the respiratory tract deposition of this formulation of MF. A secondary objective was to measure plasma concentrations of MF and a putative metabolite, 6-β-OH MF, to determine the systemic exposure to corticosteroid. Methods: This was a single-dose, open-label study in which 200 μg of technetium 99m (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc)-radiolabeled MF was administered to patients with asthma. Gamma scintigraphy was used to quantify lung, oropharyngeal, stomach, and MDI mouthpiece deposition patterns of MF. Results: Eleven patients, aged 21 to 47 years, with a history of asthma were enrolled in and completed the study. The mean (± SD) whole lung deposition of MF was 13.9% ± 5.7% of the metered (ex-valve) dose. The central lung zone received 5.3% ± 2.8% of the dose; the intermediate zone received 4.7% ± 1.9%; and peripheral lung deposition was 4.0% ± 1.5%. The mean (± SD) ratio of peripheral to central lung deposition was 0.8 ± 0.2. Oropharyngeal deposition was 79.1% ± 8.7% of the ex-valve dose, with 6.3% ± 7.8% deposited on the MDI mouthpiece and 0.7% ± 0.5% exhaled. The majority of plasma samples taken for analysis of MF and 6-β-OH MF concentrations were below the limit of quantification (50 pg/mL) in all patients after inhalation of 200 μg @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-labeled MF. Conclusion: The lung deposition of MF when administered via HFA-227 MDI is comparable to the 10% to 20% lung deposition seen with other corticosteroid suspension formulations administered by MDI that have demonstrated effectiveness in the treatment of asthma.

doi:10.1002/jac5.1351
Title:Efficacy and safety of a new inhaled epoprostenol formulation compared to inhaled nitric oxide for pulmonary hypertension after cardiothoracic surgery
Authors:R. CaputoB. FeldpauschD. AttarJ. VonoV. CobaZ. SmithL. To
Absract:Introduction: Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) or inhaled epoprostenol (iEPO) can be used for pulmonary hypertension (PH) that develops after cardiothoracic surgery. Epoprostenol (Flolan®) was reformulated with a high pH diluent to allow for stability at room temperature and remove the need for ice packs. The efficacy and safety of this epoprostenol formulation for inhalation has not been described to date. Research Question or Hypothesis: Is there a difference in attainment of a mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) goal and safety outcomes between iNO and a new formulation of iEPO in patients undergoing cardiothoracic surgery that develop PH? Study Design: Retrospective cohort study conducted at 887 bed tertiary care center. Methods: Patients were included if they were ≥ 18 years old, had a pulmonary artery catheter, underwent cardiothoracic surgery, and received iEPO or iNO for PH diagnosed peri-operatively between January 2014 and July 2019. The primary outcome was attainment of a > 15% reduction in mPAP from baseline at 6 hours after initiation of the pulmonary vasodilator in the iNO versus iEPO groups. Safety outcomes assessed included hypotension, thrombocytopenia, and acute lung injury (ALI) defined as a PaO2:FiO2 < 150. Cost of therapy was calculated using average wholesale price and duration of therapy. Chisquared and Mann-Whitney U tests were performed for categorical and continuous variables, respectively. Statistics were analyzed using IBM SPSS version 25. Results: A total of 50 patients, 25 in both the iNO and iEPO group, were included. The primary outcome was achieved by 12 (48%) and 14 (56%) patients in the iEPO and iNO groups, respectively (P = 0.572). No patients in either group experienced ALI, thrombocytopenia, or hypotension. The median cost of therapy in the iEPO and iNO groups was $270.00 vs. $5,580.00, respectively. Conclusion: No differences were identified in the attainment of an mPAP goal or safety outcomes between iNO and a new iEPO formulation.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.6b01162
Title:Inhalable Andrographolide-β-cyclodextrin Inclusion Complexes for Treatment of Staphylococcus aureus Pneumonia by Regulating Immune Responses
Authors:T. ZhangL. ZhuM. LiY. HuE. ZhangQ. JiangG. HanY. Jin
Absract:Bacterial pneumonia is a serious disease with high mortality if no appropriate and immediate therapy is available. Andrographolide (AG) is an anti-inflammatory agent extracted from a traditional Chinese herb andrographis paniculata. Oral AG tablets and pills are clinically applied for treatment of upper respiratory tract infections. However, the low solubility and bioavailability of AG lead to high doses and long-term therapy. Here we developed an andrographolide-β-cyclodextrin inclusion complex (AG-β-CD) for inhalation therapy of Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia. AG-β-CD was identified with X-ray diffraction and FT-IR. Surprisingly, both AG-β-CD and AG showed little in vitro anti-S. aureus activity. However, pulmonary delivery of AG, AG-β-CD, or penicillin had significant anti-S. aureus pneumonia effects. Leukocytes, neutrophils, white blood cells, total proteins, TNF-α, IL-6, NF-κB p65 expression, and bacterial colonies in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluids were detected. Pulmonary delivery of AG and AG-β-CD led to bacterial inhibition and inflammation alleviation by regulating immune responses, while penicillin only killed bacteria without significant immune regulation. Moreover, the antipneumonia activity of AG-β-CD was much higher than that of AG, probably resulting from locally accelerated AG dissolution due to β-CD inclusion. The aerodynamic diameter of AG-β-CD powders was 2.03 μm, suitable for pulmonary delivery. Inhalable AG-β-CD is a promising antibacterial and anti-inflammatory medicine for the treatment of S. aureus pneumonia by regulating immune responses, and the effect is enhanced by β-CD inclusion. AG and its formulations might be potent weapons against the resistant bacterial pneumonia due to their specific mechanism in the future.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.04.004
Title:Comparison of adjuvants for a spray freeze-dried whole inactivated virus influenza vaccine for pulmonary administration
Authors:H.P. PatilS. MurugappanJ. De Vries-IdemaT. MeijerhofA. De HaanH.W. FrijlinkJ. WilschutW.L.J. HinrichsA. Huckriede
Absract:Stable vaccines administered to the lungs by inhalation could circumvent many of the problems associated with current immunizations against respiratory infections. We earlier provided proof of concept in mice that pulmonary delivered whole inactivated virus (WIV) influenza vaccine formulated as a stable dry powder effectively elicits influenza-specific antibodies in lung and serum. Yet, mucosal IgA, considered particularly important for protection at the site of virus entry, was poorly induced. Here we investigate the suitability of various Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands and the saponin-derived compound GPI-0100 to serve as adjuvant for influenza vaccine administered to the lungs as dry powder. The TLR ligands palmitoyl-3-cysteine-serine-lysine-4 (Pam@sub_begin3@sub_endCSK@sub_begin4@sub_end), monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) and CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG ODN) as well as GPI-0100 tolerated the process of spray freeze-drying well. While Pam@sub_begin3@sub_endCSK@sub_begin4@sub_end had no effect on systemic antibody titers, all the other adjuvants significantly increased influenza-specific serum and lung IgG titers. Yet, only GPI-0100 also enhanced mucosal IgA titers. Moreover, only GPI-0100-adjuvanted WIV provided partial protection against heterologous virus challenge. Pulmonary immunization with GPI-0100-adjuvanted vaccine did not induce an overt inflammatory response since influx of neutrophils and production of inflammatory cytokines were moderate and transient and lung histology was normal. Our results indicate that a GPI-0100-adjuvanted dry powder influenza vaccine is a safe and effective alternative to current parenteral vaccines.

doi:10.2217/fon.12.205
Title:Efficacy versus safety concerns for aerosol chemotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer: A future dilemma for micro-oncology
Authors:K. DarwicheP. ZarogoulidisN.K. KaramanosK. DomvriE. ChatzakiT.C. ConstantinidisS. KakolyrisK. Zarogoulidis
Absract:Inhaled chemotherapy was first used more than 30 years ago. Since then, numerous chemotherapeutic agents have been used in either in vitro or in vivo studies. Several aspects of the methodology of the drug administration have been thoroughly demonstrated and explained. However, the safety concerns of these studies were not thoroughly investigated and different results regarding the same drug formulations have been reported. There are cases where the studies failed to demonstrate the long-term effects of the chemotherapeutic drug formulations to the lung parenchyma. Acute and latent effects observed in a small number of human trial studies are still under investigation of inhaled chemotherapy administration. This review provides data regarding all up-to-date inhaled chemotherapy studies and presents the methodological parameters of the safety measures incorporated. In addition, a commentary regarding the safety concerns for the medical staff participating in these studies will be presented. © 2013 Future Medicine Ltd.

doi:10.1016/S0034-7094(12)70115-0
Title:Assessment of Induction, Recovery, Agitation upon Awakening, and Consumption with the Use of two Brands of Sevoflurane for Ambulatory Anesthesia
Authors:C.R.G. TomalA.G.P.D. da SilvaA.M. YamashitaP.V. de AndradeM.T. HiranoM.A. TardelliH.C.A. Silva
Absract:Background and objectives: Due to its pharmacological characteristics, sevoflurane is the ideal anesthetic for short-duration procedures. There are two brands of sevoflurane in the Brazilian market, Sevocris@sup_begin®@sup_end and Sevorane@sup_begin®@sup_end, with different formulations and packaging. The objective of this study was to assess whether there are differences between the two anesthetics regarding induction, maintenance, recovery, and consumption. Methods: One hundred and thirty children were included, divided into two groups according to the brand used: Group 1 was assigned to sevoflurane Cristália@sup_begin®@sup_end and Group 2 to sevoflurane Abbott@sup_begin®@sup_end. The following parameters were assessed: heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, fraction of inspired and expired sevoflurane, BIS values, tympanic temperature, induction and recovery time, agitation upon awakening measured by the PAED scale, and anesthetic consumption by weighing the vaporizers. Anesthesia was induced with 1 MAC and increased every three breaths at 0.5 MAC, up to 3 MAC. Results: There was no difference between groups regarding the duration of the procedure, the anesthesia, and the parameters evaluated at induction. In Group 1, the number of children who required additional bolus of sevoflurane for anesthesia maintenance was higher than in Group 2 (p < 0.05). The fraction of inspired and expired sevoflurane at the end of the procedure was lower in Group 1 (p < 0.001). Upon awakening, BIS value was lower in Group 1 (p = 0.045). Other parameters evaluated in recovery showed no difference between groups. The use of anesthesia was similar between groups. © 2012 Elsevier Editora Ltda.

doi:10.2165/00002512-200320040-00006
Title:Novel drug delivery systems for insulin: Clinical potential for use in the elderly
Authors:J. BelminP. Valensi
Absract:Diabetes mellitus is a very common disease in the elderly and its complications are responsible for excess morbidity/mortality, loss of independence and impaired quality of life. Recent studies, while not performed in the elderly, have outlined the importance of achieving tight glycaemic control in order to prevent complications. Eighty years after its discovery, subcutaneous insulin remains a major treatment for diabetes. It is used as a first-line agent in type 1 diabetes, and in type 2 diabetes when oral antihyperglycaemic agents combined with diet and exercise fail to achieve an appropriate metabolic control. To avoid injections, other routes of insulin administration have been studied, including oral, dermal and rectal routes but they were not found to be appropriate for clinical use. Buccal or nasal insulin combined with absorption enhancers proved to have interesting properties. Inhaled insulin appears to be suitable for use in patients with diabetes because of its better bioavailability and a pharmacokinetic profile that mimics the time kinetics of insulin secretion after a meal. Clinical studies were conducted among small numbers of patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who had been treated with subcutaneous insulin. Inhaled insulin was given three times daily, just before meals, and was combined with a bedtime subcutaneous injection of long-acting insulin. In patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes the metabolic control achieved with inhaled insulin was similar to that obtained with a subcutaneous insulin regimen. Tolerance of inhaled insulin was good and treatment satisfaction was better than that with the subcutaneous regimen. Insulin inhalation appears to be an interesting way of insulin delivery for elderly patients with diabetes. However, no studies have been conducted in elderly patients with diabetes to assess this route's acceptability, convenience and ease of use in this particular population. In addition, it is necessary to conduct pharmacokinetic studies in the elderly because lung aging might reduce the bioavailability of inhaled insulin.

doi:10.1002/wnan.1634
Title:T-cell targeted pulmonary siRNA delivery for the treatment of asthma
Authors:T.W.M. KeilD. BaldassiO.M. Merkel
Absract:Despite the large number of drugs available for the treatment of asthma, in 5–10% of the patients this disease is not well controlled. While most treatments palliate symptoms, those suffering from severe and uncontrolled asthma could benefit more from a therapeutic approach addressing the root problem. An siRNA-based therapy targeting the transcription factor GATA3 in activated T helper cells subtype 2 (T@sub_beginH@sub_end2 cells), one of the key upstream factors involved in asthma, could therefore represent a promising strategy. However, the difficult-to-transfect cell type has not extensively been explored for nucleic acid therapeutics. In this regard, our group first identified a suitable pathway, that is, transferrin receptor mediated uptake, to target efficiently and specifically activated T@sub_beginH@sub_end2 cells with a transferrin-polyethyleneimine (PEI) conjugate which forms polyplexes with siRNA. This system, despite efficient uptake in activated T cells (ATCs) in vivo, suffered from poor endosomal release and was later improved by a combination with a melittin-PEI conjugate. The new formulation showed improved endosomal escape and gene silencing efficacy. Additionally, in order to develop a clinically relevant dosage form for pulmonary delivery of siRNA we have lately focused on a dry powder formulation by spray drying (SD) for the production of inhalable nano-in-microparticles. In proof-of-concept experiments, DNA/PEI polyplexes were used in order to implement analytics and engineer process parameters to pave the way for SD also siRNA containing polyplexes and more sophisticated systems in general. Ultimately, our efforts are devoted to the development of a novel treatment of asthma that can be translated from bench to bedside and are reviewed and discussed here in the context of the current literature. This article is categorized under: Therapeutic Approaches and Drug Discovery > Nanomedicine for Respiratory Disease Biology-Inspired Nanomaterials > Nucleic Acid-Based Structures Biology-Inspired Nanomaterials > Protein and Virus-Based Structures.

doi:10.1007/s40005-019-00441-3
Title:PLA/PLGA nanoparticles prepared by nano spray drying
Authors:C. Arpagaus
Absract:Background: Spray drying is a relatively simple, fast, reproducible and scalable drying technology that is suitable for drying heat-sensitive biopharmaceutical compounds. In view of the rapid progress of nanoencapsulation technologies in the pharmaceutical sector, nano spray drying is used in research to improve the powder formulation and release of active ingredients. The Nano Spray Dryer B-90 of the Swiss company Büchi Labortechnik AG extends the size of the powder particles produced into the nanometer scale with narrow size distributions and high encapsulation efficiency. Area covered: This study explains the special nano spray drying technology and discusses the influence of the respective process parameters on the powder properties. Applications of nano spray drying for the formulation and encapsulation of active ingredients in PLA/PLGA biopolymers are investigated and discussed. Optimized process parameters for the application of nano spray drying of similar substances are presented. Expert opinion: The analyzed studies show the possibility of producing PLGA particles from approx. 2 μm to below 200 nm by nano spray drying, as well as the encapsulation of various active ingredients in spherical particles and nano-in-nanoparticle composite structures made of PLGA polymers for controlled drug delivery systems. The researched applications are primarily in the therapeutic field, such as the treatment of inhalation diseases, inflammations, cancer, immune diseases, genetic disorders, the regulation of vasodilatation or the surface coating of medical implants with biocompatible PLGA nanoparticles.

doi:10.1016/j.jddst.2018.04.013
Title:Nebulization of single-chain tissue-type and single-chain urokinase plasminogen activator for treatment of inhalational smoke-induced acute lung injury
Authors:S.H. SurasarangS. SahakijpijarnG. FlorovaA.A. KomissarovC.L. NelsonE. PerenleiS. FukudaM.R. WolfsonT.H. ShafferS. IdellR.O. Williams
Absract:Single-chain tissue-type plasminogen activator (sctPA) and single-chain urokinase plasminogen activator (scuPA) have attracted interest as enzymes for the treatment of inhalational smoke-induced acute lung injury (ISALI). In this study, the pulmonary delivery of commercial human sctPA and lyophilized scuPA and their reconstituted solution forms were demonstrated using vibrating mesh nebulizers (Aeroneb@sup_begin®@sup_end Pro (active) and EZ Breathe@sup_begin®@sup_end (passive)). Both the Aeroneb@sup_begin®@sup_end Pro and EZ Breathe@sup_begin®@sup_end vibrating mesh nebulizers produced atomized droplets of protein solution of similar size of less than about 5 μm, which is appropriate for pulmonary delivery. Enzymatic activities of scuPA and of sctPA were determined after nebulization and both remained stable (88.0% and 93.9%). Additionally, the enzymatic activities of sctPA and tcuPA were not significantly affected by excipients, lyophilization or reconstitution conditions. The results of these studies support further development of inhaled formulations of fibrinolysins for delivery to the lungs following smoke-induced acute pulmonary injury.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2015.12.037
Title:Pulmonary delivery of rifampicin microspheres using lower generation polyamidoamine dendrimers as a carrier
Authors:S. RajabnezhadL. CasettariJ.K.W. LamA. NomaniM.R. TorkamaniG.F. PalmieriM.R. RajabnejadM.A. Darbandi
Absract:Different generations (G1, G2 and G3) of polyamidoamine dendrimers (PAMAM) were synthesized and co-spray dried with rifampicin to produce inhalable microspheric particles for pulmonary delivery. The particle size distribution, morphology and density of the designed formulations were characterized by laser diffraction, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and helium densitometer, respectively. The aerosolization performance of these formulations was investigated using an Andersen cascade impactor. The formulations were efficient aerosols having favorable fine particle fraction (FPF) and emitted fraction (EF), suggesting that the powders were suitable for inhalation. The absorptions of rifampicin following pulmonary administration of different formulations were also examined using an in situ pulmonary absorption method. The pharmacokinetic profiles of different rifampin formulations were studied following intrapulmonary administrations for 60h. The pharmacokinetics parameters such as C@sub_beginmax@sub_end, t@sub_beginmax@sub_end, t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end, mean residence time (MRT) and the AUC were calculated separately. It was evident that the t@sub_beginmax@sub_end value of the formulations was decreased while C@sub_beginmax@sub_end value was increased followed by PAMAM dendritic generations increased from G1 to G3. The lower generation PAMAM microspheres were found to have significant impact on the pharmacokinetics parameters of rifampicin and ultimately drug bioavailability. In this study, PAMAM G3 dendritic microsphere was identified as suitable drug carriers for the pulmonary delivery of rifampicin into lung tissues.

doi:10.1208/s12248-014-9560-4
Title:Combined inhaled salbutamol and mannitol therapy for mucus hyper-secretion in pulmonary diseases
Authors:H.X. OngD. TrainiG. BallerinL. MorganL. BuddleS. ScaliaP.M. Young
Absract:This study focuses on the co-engineering of salbutamol sulphate (SS), a common bronchodilator, and mannitol (MA), a mucolytic, as a potential combination therapy for mucus hypersecretion. This combination was chosen to have a synergic effect on the airways: the SS will act on the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-receptor for relaxation of smooth muscle and enhancement of ciliary beat frequency, whilst mannitol will improve the fluidity of mucus, consequently enhancing its clearance from the lung. A series of co-spray-dried samples, containing therapeutically relevant doses of SS and MA, were prepared. The physico-chemical characteristics of the formulations were evaluated in terms of size distribution, morphology, thermal and moisture response and aerosol performance. Additionally, the formulations were evaluated for their effects on cell viability and transport across air interface Calu-3 bronchial epithelial cells, contractibility effects on bronchial smooth muscle cells and cilia beat activity using ciliated nasal epithelial cells in vitro. The formulations demonstrated size distributions and aerosol performance suitable for inhalation therapy. Transport studies revealed that the MA component of the formulation enhanced penetration of SS across the complex mucus layer and the lung epithelia cells. Furthermore, the formulation in the ratios of SS 10@sup_begin-6@sup_end and MA 10@sup_begin-3@sup_end M gave a significant increase in cilia beat frequency whilst simultaneously preventing smooth muscle contraction associated with mannitol administration. These studies have established that co-spray dried combination formulations of MA and SS can be successfully prepared with limited toxicity, good aerosol performance and the ability to increase ciliary beat frequency for improving the mucociliary clearance in patients suffering from hyper-secretory diseases, whilst simultaneously acting on the underlying smooth muscle. © 2014 American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.02.014
Title:Towards the bioequivalence of pressurised metered dose inhalers 1: Design and characterisation of aerodynamically equivalent beclomethasone dipropionate inhalers with and without glycerol as a non-volatile excipient
Authors:D.A. LewisP.M. YoungF. ButtiniT. ChurchP. ColomboB. ForbesM. HaghiR. JohnsonH. O'SheaR. SalamaD. Traini
Absract:A series of semi-empirical equations were utilised to design two solution based pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) formulations, with equivalent aerosol performance but different physicochemical properties. Both inhaler formulations contained the drug, beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), a volatile mixture of ethanol co-solvent and propellant (hydrofluoroalkane-HFA). However, one formulation was designed such that the emitted aerosol particles contained BDP and glycerol, a common inhalation particle modifying excipient, in a 1:1 mass ratio. By modifying the formulation parameters, including actuator orifice, HFA and metering volumes, it was possible to produce two formulations (glycerol-free and glycerol-containing) which had identical mass median aerodynamic diameters (2.4 μm ± 0.1 and 2.5 μm ± 0.2), fine particle dose (≤5 μm; 66 μg ± 6 and 68 μg ± 2) and fine particle fractions (28% ± 2% and 30% ± 1%), respectively. These observations demonstrate that it is possible to engineer formulations that generate aerosol particles with very different compositions to have similar emitted dose and in vitro deposition profiles, thus making them equivalent in terms of aerosol performance. Analysis of the physicochemical properties of each formulation identified significant differences in terms of morphology, thermal properties and drug dissolution of emitted particles. The particles produced from both formulations were amorphous; however, the formulation containing glycerol generated particles with a porous structure, while the glycerol-free formulation generated particles with a primarily spherical morphology. Furthermore, the glycerol-containing particles had a significantly lower dissolution rate (7.8% ± 2.1%, over 180 min) compared to the glycerol-free particles (58.0% ± 2.9%, over 60 min) when measured using a Franz diffusion cell. It is hypothesised that the presence of glycerol in the emitted aerosol particles altered solubility and drug transport, which may have implications for BDP pharmacokinetics after deposition in the respiratory tract.© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2014.05.017
Title:Delivery strategies for sustained drug release in the lungs
Authors:C. Loira-PastorizaJ. TodoroffR. Vanbever
Absract:Drug delivery to the lungs by inhalation offers a targeted drug therapy for respiratory diseases. However, the therapeutic efficacy of inhaled drugs is limited by their rapid clearance in the lungs. Carriers providing sustained drug release in the lungs can improve therapeutic outcomes of inhaled medicines because they can retain the drug load within the lungs and progressively release the drug locally at therapeutic levels. This review presents the different formulation strategies developed to control drug release in the lungs including microparticles and the wide array of nanomedicines. Large and porous microparticles offer excellent aerodynamic properties. Their large geometric size reduces their uptake by alveolar macrophages, making them a suitable carrier for sustained drug release in the lungs. Similarly, nanocarriers present significant potential for prolonged drug release in the lungs because they largely escape uptake by lung-surface macrophages and can remain in the pulmonary tissue for weeks. They can be embedded in large and porous microparticles in order to facilitate their delivery to the lungs. Conjugation of drugs to polymers as polyethylene glycol can be particularly beneficial to sustain the release of proteins in the lungs as it allows high protein loading. Drug conjugates can be readily delivered to respiratory airways by any current nebulizer device. Nonetheless, liposomes represent the formulation most advanced in clinical development. Liposomes can be prepared with lipids endogenous to the lungs and are particularly safe. Their composition can be adjusted to modulate drug release and they can encapsulate both hydrophilic and lipophilic compounds with high drug loading.

doi:10.1128/AAC.01127-13
Title:Population pharmacokinetics of colistin methanesulfonate in rats: Achieving sustained lung concentrations of colistin for targeting respiratory infections
Authors:S.W.S. YapaJ. LiC.J.H. PorterR.L. NationK. PatelM.P. McIntosh
Absract:Colistin methanesulfonate (CMS), the inactive prodrug of colistin, is administered by inhalation for the management of respiratory infections. However, limited pharmacokinetic data are available for CMS and colistin following pulmonary delivery. This study investigates the pharmacokinetics of CMS and colistin following intravenous (i.v.) and intratracheal (i.t.) administration in rats and determines the targeting advantage after direct delivery into the lungs. In addition to plasma, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid was collected to quantify drug concentrations in lung epithelial lining fluid (ELF). The resulting data were analyzed using a population modeling approach in S-ADAPT. A three-compartment model described the disposition of both compounds in plasma following i.v. administration. The estimated mean clearance from the central compartment was 0.122 liters/h for CMS and 0.0657 liters/h for colistin. Conversion of CMS to colistin from all three compartments was required to fit the plasma data. The fraction of the i.v. dose converted to colistin in the systemic circulation was 0.0255. Two BAL fluid compartments were required to reflect drug kinetics in the ELF after i.t. dosing. A slow conversion of CMS (mean conversion time [MCTCMS]=3.48 h) in the lungs contributed to high and sustained concentrations of colistin in ELF. The fraction of the CMS dose converted to colistin in ELF (fm,ELF = 0.226) was higher than the corresponding fractional conversion in plasma after i.v. administration. In conclusion, pulmonary administration of CMS achieves high and sustained exposures of colistin in lungs for targeting respiratory infections. Copyright © 2013, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.jpeds.2006.07.045
Title:Efficacy and safety of fluticasone propionate hydrofluoroalkane inhalation aerosol in pre-school-age children with asthma: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study
Authors:P.Y. QaqundahR.W. SugermanE. CerutiJ.F. MasperoJ.F. KlehaC.A. ScottW. WuR. MehtaC. Crim
Absract:Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of fluticasone propionate (FP) hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) in children age 1 to < 4 years with asthma. Study design: Children were assigned (2:1) to receive FP HFA 88 μg (n = 239) or placebo HFA (n = 120) twice daily through a metered-dose inhaler with a valved holding chamber and attached facemask for 12 weeks. The primary efficacy measure was mean percent change from baseline to endpoint in 24-hour daily (composite of daytime and nighttime) asthma symptom scores. Results: The FP-treated children had significantly greater (P ≤ .05) reductions in 24-hour daily asthma symptom scores (-53.9% vs -44.1%) and nighttime symptom scores over the entire treatment period compared with the placebo group. Daytime asthma symptom scores and albuterol use were slightly more decreased with FP than with placebo; however, the differences were not statistically significant. Increases in the percentage of symptom-free days were comparable. The percentage of patients who experienced at least 1 adverse event was similar in the 2 groups. Baseline median urinary cortisol excretion values were comparable between the groups, and there was little change from baseline at endpoint. FP plasma concentrations demonstrated that systemic exposure was low. Conclusions: FP HFA 88 μg twice daily was effective and well tolerated in pre-school-age children with asthma. © 2006 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1007/s11095-004-1881-z
Title:Formulation and evaluation of aerosolized celecoxib for the treatment of lung cancer
Authors:A. HaynesM.S. ShaikA. ChatterjeeM. Singh
Absract:Purpose. We examined the effect of aerosolized celecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, on the in vitro cytotoxicity and apoptotic response of docetaxel against the human lung carcinoma cell lines A549 and H460. Methods. A metered dose inhaler (MDI) formulation of celecoxib was prepared and evaluated for its medication delivery and aerodynamic properties. The in vitro cytotoxicity of the aerosolized celecoxib-MDI alone or in combination with docetaxel was assessed using a six-stage viable impactor by a previously established method. The induction of apoptosis was evaluated by morphologic examination (acridine orange and Hoechst staining) and DNA fragmentation. Furthermore, in an attempt to identify molecular targets involved in the anticancer mechanisms of celecoxib and docetaxel, we examined their effect on the expression of an array of markers involved in the COX-2 dependent a nd independent pathways. Results. The celecoxib-MDI had a medication delivery of 231.3 μg/shot, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 1.4 μm (GSD=1.9), and respirable fraction of 50.7%. The celecoxib-MDI (2 shots) in combination with docetaxel had cell kills as high as 81.3% and 67.7% in A549 and H460 cells, respectively. Hoechst and acridine orange staining showed an enhanced induction of apoptosis in A549 and H460 cells exposed to aerosolized celecoxib with docetaxel, which was further confirmed by DNA fragmentation. Western blot analysis showed a significant reduction in cPLA@sub_begin2@sub_end expression in both A549 and H460 cells treated with the combination of celecoxib with docetaxel. In the COX-2 independent pathway, there was a significant increase in the expression of PPAR-γ and p53, whereas pro-caspase-3 expression was significantly decreased, which may contribute to the enhanced apoptotic response observed with the combination treatment. Conclusions. Our results suggest that aerosolized celecoxib significantly enhances the in vitro cytotoxicity and apoptotic response of docetaxel against A549 and H460 cells, and this enhanced activity is mediated via alterations in expression of various molecular targets involved in apoptosis. © 2005 Springer Science+Business Media, Inc.

doi:10.1053/rmed.2002.1455
Title:Bronchodilator effect of an inhaled combination therapy with salmeterol + fluticasone and formeterol + budesonide in patients with COPD
Authors:M. CazzolaP. SantusF. Di MarcoB. BoveriF. CastagnaP. CarlucciM.G. MateraS. Centanni
Absract:In the present trial, we compared the broncholytic efficacy of the combination therapy with 50 μg salmeterol + 250 μg fluticasone and 12 μg formoterol + 400 μg budesonide, both in a single inhaler device, in 16 patients with moderate-to-severe COPD. The study was performed using a single-blind crossover randomized study Lung function, pulse oximetry (SpO@sub_begin2@sub_end) and heart rate were monitored before and 15, 30, 60, 120, 180, 240, 300, 360, 480, 600, and 720 min after bronchodilator inhalation. Both combinations were effective in reducing airflow obstruction. FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end AUC@sub_begin0-12h@sub_end was 2.83 1 (95% CI: 2.13-3.54) after salmeterol/fluticasone and 2.57 1 (95% CI: 1.97-3.2) after formoterol/budesonide. Formoterol/budesonide elicited the mean maximum improvement in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end above baseline after 120 min (0.29 1; 95% CI: 0.21 0.37) and salmeterol/fluticasone after 300 min (0.32 1; 95% CI: 0.23-0.41). At 720 min, the increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end over baseline values was 0.10 1 (95% CI: 0.07-0.12) after salmeterol/fluticasone and 0.10 1(95% CI: 0.07-0.13) after formoterol/budesonide. The mean peak increase in heart rate occurred 300 min after formoterol/budesonide (1.5 b/min; 95% CI -2.3 to 5.3) and 360 min after salmeterol/fluticasone (2.6 b/min; 95% CI -1.9 to 70). SpO@sub_begin2@sub_end did not change. All differences between salmeterol/fluticasone and formoterol/budesonide were not significant (P > 0.05) except those in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end at 120 and 360 min.The results indicate that an inhaled combination therapy with a long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist and an inhaled corticosteroid appears to be effective in improving airway limitation after acute administration in patients suffering from COPD. © 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(02)00533-1
Title:Equivalence testing of salbutamol dry powder inhalers: In vitro impaction results versus in vivo efficacy
Authors:M. WedaP. ZanenA.H. De BoerD. GjaltemaA. AjaoudD.M. BarendsH.W. Frijlink
Absract:The aim of the study was to evaluate several impactors for in vitro equivalence testing of salbutamol with respect to efficacy and to define in vitro equivalence limits validated with in vivo efficacy data. The four impactors described in Supplement 2000 of the European Pharmacopoeia were used: Glass Impinger (GI), Metal Impinger (MI), Multistage Liquid Impinger (MSLI) and Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). Three salbutamol dry powder formulations with different fine particle doses (FPDs) were prepared and the aerodynamic particle size distribution was measured. For each impactor also the recovery was determined. The same three preparations were administered to 12 asthmatic patients in a randomized, placebo-controlled, four-way crossover study. Cumulative doses from 50 μg up to 400 μg were given. The FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was measured at baseline and 15 min after each dose. The in vitro results showed large differences between the FPDs of the three preparations with all impactors, whereas only small differences were observed between the four impactors. Since the recoveries of the MI and GI were low, in vitro equivalence testing should only be performed with the MSLI or ACI. The in vivo measurements did not show significant differences in efficacy between the three active preparations, even at the most discriminatory dose of 50 μg. It is concluded that in case there are no relevant differences between delivered dose, inhalation device and excipients, for salbutamol dry powder inhalers equivalence can be assumed when the 90% confidence interval for the FPD ratio of the test product and reference product is within 0.50-1.20 and each of the two products has a FPD (particles <6 μm) of at least 10 μg. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

pui:25105902
Title:Salmeterol 50 μg twice daily in the treatment of mild-to-moderate asthma in childhood - A comparison of two inhalation devices
Authors:P.M. GustafssonA. Von BergM.M. Jenkins
Absract:This randomised, multicentre, double blind, double dummy, parallel group study set out to compare the effects of inhaled salmeterol 50 μg twice daily when administered as aerosol via a metered dose inhaler (MDI) and as dry powder via a Diskhaler® to children with asthma. A total of 162 children aged four to 16 years with symptomatic asthma and a requirement for inhaled β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists were randomised to treatment. A two-week run-in period preceded a two-week treatment period. During the run-in all current bronchodilator medication was replaced with inhaled salbutamol which was taken as required. Children currently receiving up to 1.5 mg/day inhaled glucocorticosteroids, sodium cromoglycate, nedocromil sodium or ketotifen were allowed to continue with this treatment provided the dose remained constant throughout the study period. Methylxanthines and anticholinergic agents were discontinued at the start of the run-in period. Children on oral or parenteral steroids were excluded from the study, There was no difference between the two treatment groups in terms of demographic details or pre-study asthma medication. Morning peak expiratory flow (PEF) improved in both treatment groups, mean increase being 21 l/min for salmeterol via the Diskhaler and 24 l/min for salmeterol via the MDI. There was no significant difference between the groups (the mean difference between the Diskhaler and MDI being -4 (95% CI -13, 6)). Similarly the improvement in evening PEF was similar whether salmeterol was administered by the MDI or the Diskhaler (13 l/min and 17 l/min, respectively). Both treatment groups were associated with a similar improvement in daytime and night-time symptoms which was accompanied by a decreased use of rescue bronchodilator. Clinic lung function measurements were also improved. In the main, both patients and physicians found treatment to be very effective or effective, irrespective of the device used. The overall incidence of adverse events was low and there were no clinically significant changes in any of the laboratory parameters assessed, nor was there any difference between the two treatment groups. In conclusion, salmeterol 50 μg given twice daily to children with asthma was shown to be equally effective and well tolerated whether administered by MDI or Diskhaler.

doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2020.07.014
Title:Phage Therapy in the Resistance Era: Where Do We Stand and Where Are We Going?
Authors:T. LuongA.-C. SalabarriaD.R. Roach
Absract:Purpose: Widespread antibiotic-resistant bacteria are threatening the arsenal of existing antibiotics. Not only are antibiotics less likely to be effective today, but their extensive use continues to drive the emergence of multidrug-resistant pathogens. A new-old antibacterial strategy with bacteriophages (phages) is under development, namely, phage therapy. Phages are targeted bacterial viruses with multiple antibacterial effector functions, which can reduce multidrug-resistant infections within the human body. This review summarizes recent phage therapy clinical trials and patient cases and outlines the fundamentals behind phage treatment strategies under development, mainly through bench-to-bedside approaches. We discuss the challenges that remain in phage therapy and the role of phages when combined with antibiotic therapy. Methods: This narrative review presents the current knowledge and latest findings regarding phage therapy. Relevant case reports and research articles available through the Scopus and PubMed databases are discussed. Findings: Although recent clinical data suggest the tolerability and, in some cases, efficacy of phage therapy, the clinical functionality still requires careful definition. The lack of well-controlled clinical trial data and complex regulatory frameworks have driven the most recent human data generation on a single-patient compassionate use basis. These cases often include the concomitant use of antibiotics, which makes it difficult to draw conclusions regarding the effectiveness of phages alone. However, human data support using antibiotics as phage potentiators and resistance breakers; thus, phage adjuvants are a promising avenue for near-term clinical development. Current knowledge gaps exist on the appropriate routes of administration, phage selection, frequency of administration, dosage, phage resistance, and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of the phages. In addition, we highlight that some phage therapies have mild adverse effects in patients. Implications: Although more translational research is needed before the clinical implementation is feasible, phage therapy may well be pivotal in safeguarding humans against antibiotic-resistant infections.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.09.031
Title:Inhalation treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis with curcumin large porous microparticles
Authors:Y. HuM. LiM. ZhangY. Jin
Absract:Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive interstitial lung disease with high mortality and poor prognosis. Curcumin shows anti-inflammatory effect by suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokines and inhibiting NF-κB mediated inflammation. Here, we developed inhalable curcumin-loaded poly(lactic-co-glycolic)acid (PLGA) large porous microparticles (LPMPs) for the treatment of IPF. Curcumin LPMPs were rough and loose particles with many pores on the surfaces and channels in the inner spaces. The mean geometric diameter of them was larger than 10 µm while the aerodynamic diameter was only 3.12 µm due to their porous structures. They showed a fine particle fraction (FPF) <4.46 μm of 13.41%, 71% cumulative release after 9 h, and more importantly, they avoided uptake by alveolar macrophages. Therefore, most of released curcumin had opportunities to enter lung tissues. Rat pulmonary fibrosis models were established via once intratracheal administration of bleomycin. Curcumin powders and curcumin LPMPs were administered on Days 2, 7, 14, and 21. Curcumin LPMPs remarkably attenuated lung injuries, decreased hydroxyproline contents, reduced the synthesis of collagen I, and inhibited the expressions of TNF-α TGF-β1, NF-κB p65 and MMP9. Moreover, curcumin LPMPs showed higher antifibrotic activity than curcumin powders. Curcumin LPMPs are a promising inhalable medication for the treatment of IPF.

doi:10.2174/1567201815666180228161659
Title:Insulin therapy for diabetes epidemic: A patent review
Authors:R. TandonV. LuxamiH.S. DosanjhN. TandonK. Paul
Absract:Diabetes is a serious and chronic problem that can be attributed to the insufficient release of the insulin or when body does not respond to the insulin which is already present. This disease has been targeted for corrective action and implementation among four non-communicable diseases by world leaders according to WHO report. The prevalence of diabetes has been estimated to be double from 4.7% of adult population in 1980 to 8.5% in the present scenario. The estimated deaths due to this epidemic disease were 1.5 million in 2012 alone. Currently, approximately 400 million people are suffering from diabetes worldwide. Although the factors leading to Type I diabetes are unknown, there are many therapies available in market for Type II disease which bags more than 90% of the total diabetes cases. But, the current treatment for this disease seems to be lacking in terms of proper management of disease, while insulin still remains the ultimate therapy to achieve comparatively effective glycemic control. In this review, an attempt has been made to summarize the patent applications filed in the field of pulmonary delivery of insulin as dry powder through an inhaler in various formulations. This review will provide an insight to the development and advancement for various formulations of insulin and the design of inhaler to improve the bioavailability of powder formulation of insulin, which would provide an alternate treatment with better acceptability or tolerability among the patients as compared to the intravenous delivery to offer better management of epidemic diabetes.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.12.065
Title:Strategic application of self-micellizing solid dispersion technology to respirable powder formulation of tranilast for improved therapeutic potential
Authors:H. SuzukiY. KojoK. YakushijiK. YuminokiN. HashimotoS. Onoue
Absract:Purpose The present study aimed to develop an inhalable self-micellizing solid dispersion of tranilast (SMSD/TL) using poly[MPC-co-BMA] to improve the therapeutic potential and safety. Methods The safety of poly[MPC-co-BMA] in lungs was assessed using rat lung epithelium-derived L2 cells. SMSD/TL and respirable powder of SMSD/TL (SMSD/TL-RP) were prepared using a wet milling system and jet mill, respectively. The physicochemical properties of TL formulations were characterized in terms of dissolution, morphology, and particle size. Pharmacological and pharmacokinetic studies were also conducted on inhaled SMSD/TL-RP. Results The lactate dehydrogenase level from L2 cells treated with poly[MPC-co-BMA] was lower than that with polysorbate 80, a positive control. SMSD/TL showed enhanced dissolution behavior of TL. The jet milled SMSD/TL particles easily separated from the lactose carrier, and the particle size was suitable for inhalation. Compared with RP of TL, inhaled SMSD/TL-RP (100 μg-TL/rat) could more strongly suppress the inflammatory responses in antigen-sensitized rats. The TL level in plasma after intratracheal administration of SMSD/TL-RP at a pharmacological effective dose (100 μg-TL/rat) was ca. 4.2-fold lower than that after oral administration of TL solution at a clinical dose (1.67 mg/kg). Conclusion SMSD/TL-RP might be an attractive dosage form to improve the anti-inflammatory effects and safety of TL.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.04.015
Title:Inhalable tranexamic acid for haemoptysis treatment
Authors:M. HaghiW. Van Den OetelaarL.M. MoirB. ZhuG. PhillipsJ. CrapperP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Purpose An inhalable dry powder formulation of tranexamic acid (TA) was developed and tested in a novel high-dose Orbital® multi-breath inhaler. The formulation was specifically intended for the treatment of pulmonary haemorrhage and wound healing associated with haemoptysis. Methods Inhalable TA particles were prepared by spray drying and the powder characterised using laser diffraction, electron microscopy, thermal analysis, moisture sorption and X-ray powder diffraction. The aerosol performance was evaluated using cascade impaction and inline laser diffraction and interaction with epithelia cells and wound healing capacity investigated using Calu-3 air interface model. Results The spray dried TA particles were crystalline and spherical with a D@sub_begin0.5@sub_end of 3.35 μm. The powders were stable and had limited moisture sorption (0.307% w/w at 90% RH). The Orbital device delivered ca. 38 mg powder per 'inhalation' at 60 l·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end across four sequential shots with an overall fine particle fraction (≤6.4 μm) of 59.3 ± 3.5% based on the emitted mass of ca. 150 mg. The TA particles were well tolerated by Calu-3 bronchial epithelia cells across a wide range of doses (from 1 nM to 10 nM) and no increase in inflammatory mediators was observed after deposition of the particles (a decrease in IL-1β, IL-8 and INFγ was observed). Time lapse microscopy of a damaged confluent epithelia indicated that wound closure was significantly greater in TA treated cells compared to control. Conclusion A stable, high performance aerosol of TA has been developed in a multi-breath DPI device that can be used for the treatment of pulmonary lesions and haemoptysis.

doi:10.1016/S2213-2600(13)70072-9
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery: From generating aerosols to overcoming biological barriers-therapeutic possibilities and technological challenges
Authors:A.C. RugeJ. KirchC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Research in pulmonary drug delivery has focused mainly on new particle or device technologies to improve the aerosol generation and pulmonary deposition of inhaled drugs. Although substantial progress has been made in this respect, no signifi cant advances have been made that would lead pulmonary drug delivery beyond the treatment of some respiratory diseases. One main reason for this stagnation is the still very scarce knowledge about the fate of inhaled drug or carrier particles after deposition in the lungs. Improvement of the aerosol component alone is no longer suffi cient for therapeutic success of inhalation drugs; a paradigm shift is needed, with an increased focus on the pulmonary barriers to drug delivery. In this Review, we discuss some pathophysiological disorders that could benefi t from better control of the processes after aerosol deposition, and pharmaceutical approaches to achieve improved absorption across the alveolar epithelium, prolonged pulmonary clearance, and targeted delivery to specific cells or tissues.

doi:10.1517/17425247.4.3.215
Title:The rejuvenated pressurised metered dose inhaler
Authors:J. BellS. Newman
Absract:The pressurised metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) has now been available for 50 years. Once regarded as an inefficient and difficult-to-use device, the technology has evolved significantly over the last few years, particularly since the introduction of novel formulations containing hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellants. Many modern HFA pMDIs deposit drug more efficiently in the lungs, impact less forcefully on the back of the throat and feel less cold than their chlorofluorocarbon pMDI counterparts. An improved understanding of technical factors makes it possible to design HFA pMDIs to have specific spray properties, particularly in terms of fine particle dose and spray velocity. Device technology has also progressed with the introduction of compact and convenient breath-actuated, breath-coordinated and velocity-modifying devices, which help patients to achieve a reliable lung dose. Although it faces competition from dry powder inhalers and possibly from novel soft-mist inhalers containing liquid formulations, the rejuvenated HFA pMDI is a device with a significant future for asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and wider treatment indications. © 2007 Informa UK Ltd.

pui:34177148
Title:Beclomethasone dipropionate versus budesonide inhalation suspension in children with mild to moderate persistent asthma
Authors:C. TerzanoL. AllegraL. BarkaiG. Cremonesi
Absract:Inhaled steroids are the most effective long-term treatment of persistent asthma but many children are unable to use correctly the available inhalers. Administration of nebulized corticosteroids has some advantages over the administration with pressurised metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs). The objective of this multicenter randomised study was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of nebulized corticosteroids in paediatric patients with asthma. 127 patients aged ≥6 and ≤ 14 years with a diagnosis of mild to moderate persistent asthma (PEFR % predicted > 50% and < 85%) and positive response to the reversibility test were randomized. The patients were assigned by randomisation to one of the two treatment groups (4 weeks): beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) 800 μg/daily b.i.d. (n=66) or budesonide (BUD) 1000 μg/daily b.i.d. (n=61) both administered by nebulizer. The primary efficacy end point was the final mean of PEFR measured at clinical visit (clinic PEFR). In the BDP group clinic PEFR increased from 177.5 ± 80 L/min to 246.6 ± 84.2 L/min (p<0.001vs baseline), while in the BUD group the increase was from 180.4 ± 77.8 L/min to 260.9 ± 84.1 L/min (p<0.001 vs baseline) (NS between treatments). FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end (% predicted) increased from 77.8% to 92.7% (p<0.001 vs baseline) and from 74.1% to 95.9% (p<0.001 vs baseline) in BDP and BUD group respectively (NS between treatments). Patients reduced the use of salbutamol rescue medication by 76% and 81% in BDP and BUD group respectively (p<0.001 vs baseline, NS between treatments). 4 patients in the BDP group and 2 in the BUD group reported adverse events (AEs). AEs were mild to moderate and never there was the need to discontinue the treatments. In conclusion the results of this study demonstrate that both BDP (800 μg/daily) and BUD (1000 μg/daily) administered by nebulization are effective and with a acceptable safety and tolerability profile.

doi:10.1023/A:1011028227155
Title:Systemic delivery of cetrorelix to rats by a new aerosol delivery system
Authors:R. LizioT. KlennerA.W. SarlikiotisP. RomeisD. MarxT. NolteW. JahnG. BorchardC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Purpose. To study the pulmonary absorption and tolerability of various formulations of the decapeptide cetrorelix acetate in rats by a new aerosol delivery system (ASTA-ADS) for intratracheal application. Methods. Using the ASTA-ADS, cetrorelix liquid formulations (aqueous solutions for ultrasonic nebulization) were firstly selected and subsequently delivered as nebulized aerosol to orotracheally cannulated rats. The pharmacologic effect (decrease of testosterone serum level) of four cetrorelix formulations was determined in rats by enzyme linked immunosorbant assay, and pharmacokinetic data were determined after measurement of cetrorelix serum level by radioimmunoassay. Histological examination of the lung was performed at the end of the experiments, and in a supplementary experiment the respiratory parameters (resistance and compliance) of rats were monitored by a validated pulmonary monitoring system during the aerosol application of the same formulations. Results. After an exposure time of 5 min, the applied formulations reduced the testosterone concentration in serum to subnormal levels (≤1 ng/ml) over a period of 24 h. Comparing the plasma concentration after intratracheal aerosolization with data of intravenous administration, the mean calculated bioavailabilities for the four formulations using the corrected dose (delivered - exhaled amount) were between 48.4 ± 27.0% and 77.4 ± 44.0%. The histologic examination of the lungs revealed different tolerability of the various tested formulations ranging from locally intolerable to well tolerated. The measurement of the lung function parameters did not reveal any compound or formulation related changes. Conclusions. Our studies show that cetrorelix can be effectively administered as aerosol and that intratracheal aerosolization via the ASTA-ADS provides results that are well comparable to other application routes, as demonstrated by statistical comparison of the newly obtained data with previous results from intratracheal instillation of cetrorelix solutions in rats.

doi:10.1007/s11095-021-03111-y
Title:Manufacturing Stable Bacteriophage Powders by Including Buffer System in Formulations and Using Thin Film Freeze-drying Technology
Authors:Y. ZhangM. SotoD. GhoshR.O. Williams
Absract:Purpose: Bacteriophage (phage) therapy has re-gained attention lately given the ever-increasing prevalence of multi-drug resistance ‘super-bugs’. To develop therapeutic phage into clinically usable drug products, the strategy of solidifying phage formulations has been implemented to diversify the dosage forms and to overcome the storage condition limitations for liquid phage formulations. Method: In our work, we hypothesize and tested that an advanced technology, thin film freeze-drying (TFFD), can be used to produce phage containing dry powders without significantly losing phage viability. Here we selected T7 phage as our model phage in a preliminary screening study. Results: We found that a binary excipient matrix of sucrose and leucine at ratios of 90:10 or 75:25 by weight, protected phage from the stresses encountered during the TFFD process. In addition, we confirmed that incorporating a buffer system in the formulation significantly improved the survival of phage during the initial freezing step and subsequent sublimation step in the solidifying processes. The titer loss of phage in SM buffer (Tris/NaCl/MgSO4) containing formulation was as low as 0.19 log plaque forming units, which indicated that phage function was well preserved after the TFFD process. The presence of buffers markedly reduced the geometric particle sizes as determined by a dry dispersion method using laser diffraction, which indicated that the TFFD phage powder formulations were easily sheared into smaller powder aggregates, an ideal property for facilitating a variety of topical drug delivery routes including pulmonary delivery through dry powder inhalers, nebulization after reconstitution, and intranasal or wound therapy, etc. Conclusion: From these findings, we show that introducing buffer system can stabilize phage during dehydration processes, and TFFD, as a novel particle engineering method, can successfully produce phage containing powders that possess the desired properties for bioactivity and potentially for inhalation therapy.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13081162
Title:The influence of formulation components and environmental humidity on spray-dried phage powders for treatment of respiratory infections caused by acinetobacter baumannii
Authors:W. YanR. HeX. TangB. TianY. LiuY. TongK.W.T. KennethS.S.Y. Leung
Absract:The feasibility of using respirable bacteriophage (phage) powder to treat lung infections has been demonstrated in animal models and clinical studies. This work investigated the influence of formulation compositions and excipient concentrations on the aerosol performance and storage stability of phage powder. An anti-Acinetobacter baumannii phage vB_AbaM-IME-AB406 was incorporated into dry powders consisting of trehalose, mannitol and L-leucine for the first time. The phage stability upon the spray-drying process, room temperature storage and powder dispersion under different humidity conditions were assessed. In general, powders prepared with higher mannitol content (40% of the total solids) showed a lower degree of particle merging and no sense of stickiness during sample handling. These formulations also provided better storage stability of phage with no further titer loss after 1 month and <1 log titer loss in 6 months at high excipient concentration. Mannitol improved the dispersibility of phage powders, but the in vitro lung dose dropped sharply after exposure to high-humidity condition (65% RH) for formulations with 20% mannitol. While previously collected knowledge on phage powder preparation could be largely extended to formulate A. baumannii phage into inhalable dry powders, the environmental humidity may have great impacts on the stability and dispersion of phage; therefore, specific attention is required when optimizing phage powder formulations for global distribution.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.1c00189
Title:Understanding the Impact of Protein-Excipient Interactions on Physical Stability of Spray-Dried Protein Solids
Authors:Y. ChenJ. LingM. LiY. SuK.S. ArteT.T. MutukuriL.S. TaylorE.J. MunsonE.M. ToppQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Mannitol, leucine, and trehalose have been widely used in spray-dried formulations, especially for inhalation formulations. The individual contribution of these excipients on protein physical stability in spray-dried solids was studied here using bovine serum albumin (BSA) as a model protein. The spray-dried solids were characterized with scanning electron microscopy, powder X-ray diffraction, and solid-state Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy to analyze particle morphology, crystallinity, and secondary structure change, respectively. Advanced solid-state characterizations were conducted with solid-state hydrogen-deuterium exchange (ssHDX) and solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (ssNMR) to explore protein conformation and molecular interactions in the context of the system physical stability. Trehalose remained amorphous after spray-drying and was miscible with BSA, forming hydrogen bonds to maintain protein conformation, whereby this system showed the least monomer loss in the stability study. As indicated by ssNMR, both crystalline and amorphous forms of mannitol existed in the spray-dried BSA-mannitol solids, which explained its partial stabilizing effect on BSA. Leucine showed the strongest crystallization tendency after spray-drying and did not provide a stabilizing effect due to substantial immiscibility and phase separation with BSA as a result of crystal formation. This work showed novel applications of ssNMR in examining protein conformation and protein-excipient interaction in dry formulations. Overall, our results demonstrate the pivotal role of advanced solid-state characterization techniques in understanding the physical stability of spray-dried protein solids.

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2020.05.027
Title:Development of a Carrier-Free Dry Powder Ofloxacin Formulation With Enhanced Aerosolization Properties
Authors:N.E. CeschanM.D. RosasM.E. OliveraA.V. DugourJ.M. FigueroaV. BucaláM.V. Ramírez-Rigo
Absract:Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious infectious disease that affects more than new 10 million patients each year. Many of these cases are resistant to first-line drugs so second-line ones, like fluoroquinolones, need to be incorporated into the therapeutic. Ofloxacin (OF) is a fluoroquinolone which demonstrates high antibiotic activity against the bacteria that causes TB (M. tuberculosis). In this work, ionic complexes, composed by hyaluronic acid (HA) and OF, with different neutralization degrees, were prepared and processed by spray drying (SD) to obtain powders for inhalatory administration. Combining a formulation with high neutralization degree, high SD atomization air flowrate and the use of a high-performance collection cyclone, very good process yields were obtained. Carrier-free formulations with a loading of 0.39–0.46 g@sub_beginOF@sub_end/g@sub_beginpowder@sub_end showed excellent emitted, fine particle, and respirable fractions for capsule loadings of 25 and 100 mg. The ionic complexes demonstrated higher mucoadhesion than pure OF and HA. The best formulation did not affect CALU-3 cell viability up to a dose 6.5 times higher than the MIC@sub_begin90@sub_end reported to treat multi-drug resistant TB.

doi:10.4187/respcare.01518
Title:Survey of aerosol delivery techniques to spontaneously breathing tracheostomized children
Authors:L. Denise WillisA. Berlinski
Absract:BACKGROUND: Therapeutic inhaled aerosols are often delivered to spontaneously breathing tracheostomized children. Although aerosol delivery can be affected by several factors, no recommendations for device/drug formulation choice are available. We hypothesized that practice modalities will vary among different institutions. METHODS: The respiratory care departments in institutions in the United States that train pediatric pulmonologists were surveyed regarding their practices of delivering aerosols to spontaneously breathing tracheostomized children. Characteristics of the institution; use of metered-dose inhalers (MDIs), nebulizers, and dry powder inhalers; use of a resuscitation bag to aid aerosol delivery (assisted); types of medication used; and factors affecting choice of delivery method were recorded. RESULTS: Of the invited institutions, 81% (38/47) participated, with 68% of them being freestanding children's hospitals. MDIs were used by 92% of the institutions surveyed, with similar use of unassisted (32%, with 83% of them using spacers), assisted (34%, with 100% of them using non-valved spacers), and both techniques (34%). Nebulizers were used by 97% of the institutions surveyed, with all using unassisted and 32% also using assisted technique. Tracheostomy aerosol mask was the most commonly used interface (89%). Assisted technique for either MDI or nebulizer was used by 68% of the institutions surveyed, with similar use of flow-inflating bag, self-inflating bag, and both devices. Types of inhaled medications utilized by surveyed institutions included aerosolized antibiotics (82%), corticosteroids (100%), short-acting β agonists (100%), combination therapy (32%), and mucolytics (84%). Dry powders were not used. Patient cooperation was the most frequent and single most important factor influencing the choice of delivery method. CONCLUSIONS: A wide variation in practice of delivering aerosols to spontaneously breathing tracheostomized children was noted. In-vivo and in-vitro studies are needed to support clinical recommendations. © 2012 Daedalus Enterprises.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2010.0838
Title:Pulmonary formulations: What remains to be done?
Authors:J.G. WeersJ. BellH.-K. ChanD. CipollaC. DunbarA.J. HickeyI.J. Smith
Absract:Significant advances have been made in the last 50 years in developing safe and efficacious aerosol formulations for pulmonary delivery. The key to future innovation may lie at the interface between biology and particle engineering. Improved understanding of biological processes including particle clearance, cellular targeting, intracellular trafficking, and drug absorption are needed to better design formulations that deliver to the "target" with the optimal balance of pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, and safety profiles. More specifically, continued advances are needed in the development of: (1) controlled release formulations; (2) formulations with improved regional targeting within the lungs (e.g., airway versus alveoli and vice versa); (3) formulations containing active targeting moieties; (4) formulation strategies for improving the systemic bioavailability of inhaled macromolecules; (5) formulation strategies for delivering macromolecules, including siRNA and DNA into cells; and (f) formulations with improved dose consistency. It is likely that such innovation will require the development of novel excipients and particle engineering strategies. Future innovation must also take into the account the changing marketplace and the diverse set of customers (patient, healthcare professional, heath authorities, payers, and politicians) who must be satisfied. The pharmacoeconomics of new delivery systems will be closely scrutinized, so it is imperative that cost factors be taken into account. Otherwise, the new technology option may overshoot the evolving inhalation marketplace. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0745
Title:Inhalable lactose-based dry powder formulations of low molecular weight heparin
Authors:S. BaiV. GuptaF. Ahsan
Absract:Background: Currently low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is administered as subcutaneous injection. This study sought to investigate the feasibility of LMWH as an inhalable dry powder (DPI) formulation and evaluate the interaction of the drug with lactose when used as a carrier. The study also compares the extent of pulmonary absorption of LMWH administered as a dry powder with that administered as an aerosolized aqueous solution. Methods: The formulations were prepared by mixing LMWH in an aqueous solution of lactose followed by lyophilization of the resulting solution. The lyophilized preparation was then ground and sieved. Physical characterization of the formulations was performed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), particle size analysis, and determination of aerodynamic diameter. For in vivo studies, formulations were administered to anesthetized rats, and drug absorption was monitored by measuring plasma antifactor Xa activity. Results and Conclusions: In the FTIR scan, all characteristic peaks of lactose and LMWH were observed, suggesting that there was no strong interaction between lactose and LMWH. Although the aerodynamic diameter of the formulation (DPI-2) that was sieved through 170- and 230-mesh screens was similar to that of the formulation (DPI-1) sieved through 120- and 170-mesh screens, the particle sizes of the two formulations were significantly different. Dry powder formulations of LMWH were better absorbed compared to an inhalable solution of LMWH. One of the dry powder formulations (DPI-2) produced an almost 1.5-fold increase in the relative bioavailability (41.6%) compared to the liquid formulation of LMWH (32.5%). Overall, the data presented here suggest that lactose does not adversely affect the physical-chemical characteristics of the drug, and that lactose can be used as a carrier for pulmonary delivery of LMWH. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2008.0686
Title:Characterization of nebulized liposomal amikacin (Arikace™) as a function of droplet size
Authors:Z. LiY. ZhangW. WurtzJ.K. LeeV.S. MalininS. Durwas-KrishnanP. MeersW.R. Perkins
Absract:The stress of nebulization has been shown to alter the properties of liposomal drugs. What has not been demonstrated is whether nebulized liposomes differ as a function of droplet size. Because droplet size influences lung deposition, liposomes with different properties could be deposited in different areas of the lung (e.g., central vs. peripheral). In this report, a liposomal amikacin formulation (Arikace™, a registered trademark of Transave, Inc., Monmouth Junction, NJ) that is being developed as an inhaled treatment for gram negative infections was aerosolized with an eFlow® (registered trademark of PARI, GmbH, Munich, Germany) nebulizer, reclaimed from the various stages of an Andersen cascade impactor (ACI) and analyzed for lipid-to-drug (L/D) (w/w) ratio, amikacin retention, and liposome size. For the nebulized solution, 99.7% of the total deposited drug was found on ACI stages 0 through 5, which have cutoff diameters of 9, 5.8, 4.7, 3.3, 2.1, and 1.1 μm, respectively. Properties were found to differ for drug reclaimed on stage 0 compared stages 1-5, which were not different from one another. For drug found on stages 1-5 (97% of total drug), the averages (n = 3) for L/D, percent encapsulated amikacin, and liposome mean diameter ranged from 0.59 to 0.68 (w/w), 71% to 75%, 248 to 282 nm, respectively. Drug found on stage 0 (2.8% of total drug) had an average L/D ratio of 0.51 and average liposome mean diameter of 375 nm. Examination of another batch of liposomal amikacin revealed no statistically significant differences between drug reclaimed on stages 0-5. Although a droplet size dependence was noted for one batch of Arikace™ aerosolized with the eFlow®, the effect was considered to be inconsequential because the fraction in doubt represented nonrespirable particles >9 μm and accounted for <3% of the total deposited dose. The methodology applied here appears useful in evaluating aerosolized liposome systems. However, our results should not be assumed to apply to other liposome/drug compositions and nebulizers. © Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2008.

doi:10.1023/A:1015322616613
Title:Improved lung delivery from a passive dry powder inhaler using an engineered PulmoSphere® powder
Authors:S.P. DudduS.A. SiskY.H. WalterT.E. TararaK.R. TrimbleA.R. ClarkM.A. EldonR.C. EltonM. PickfordP.H. HirstS.P. NewmanJ.G. Weers
Absract:Purpose. To assess the pulmonary deposition and pharmacokinetics of an engineered PulmoSphere® powder relative to standard micronized drug when delivered from passive dry powder inhalers (DPIs). Methods. Budesonide PulmoSphere (PS@sub_beginbud@sub_end) powder was manufactured using an emulsion-based spray-drying process. Eight healthy subjects completed 3 treatments in crossover fashion: 370 μg budesonide PulmoSphere inhaled from Eclipse® DPI at target PIF of 25 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end (PS@sub_beginbud25@sub_end), and 50 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end (PS@sub_beginbud50@sub_end), and 800 μg of pelletized budesonide from Pulmicort® Turbuhaler® at 60 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end(TH@sub_beginbud60@sub_end). PS@sub_beginbud@sub_end powder was radiolabeled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc and lung deposition determined scintigraphically. Plasma budesonide concentrations were measured for 12 h after inhalation. Results. Pulmonary deposition (mean ± sd) of PS@sub_beginbud@sub_end was 57 ± 7% and 58 ± 8% of the nominal dose at 25 and 50 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end, respectively. Mean peak plasma budesonide levels were 4,7 (PS@sub_beginbud25@sub_end), 4.0 (PS@sub_beginbud50@sub_end), and 2.2 ng·ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end (TH@sub_beginbud60@sub_end). Median t@sub_beginmax@sub_end was 5 min after both PS@sub_beginbud@sub_end inhalations compared to 20 min for Turbuhaler (P < 0.05). Mean AUCs were comparable after all inhalations, 5.1 (PS@sub_beginbud25@sub_end), 5.9 (PS@sub_beginbud50@sub_end), and 6.0 (TH@sub_beginbud60@sub_end) ng·h·ml@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The engineered PS@sub_beginbud@sub_end powder delivered at both flow rates from the Eclipse® DPI was twice as efficiently deposited as pelletized budesonide delivered at 60 L·min@sup_begin-1@sup_end from the Turbuhaler. Intersubject variability was also dramatically decreased for PS@sub_beginbud@sub_end relative to TH@sub_beginbud@sub_end. Conclusion. Delivery of an engineered PulmoSphere formulation is more efficient and reproducible than delivery of micronized drug from passive DPIs.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2017.1412
Title:Aerosolizing Lipid Dispersions Enables Antibiotic Transport Across Mimics of the Lung Airway Surface even in the Presence of Pre-existing Lipid Monolayers
Authors:S.V. IasellaA.Z. StettenT.E. CorcoranS. GaroffT.M. PrzybycienR.D. Tilton
Absract:Background: Secondary lung infections are the primary cause of morbidity associated with cystic fibrosis lung disease. Aerosolized antibiotic inhalation is potentially advantageous but has limited effectiveness due to altered airway aerodynamics and deposition patterns that limit drug access to infected regions. One potential strategy to better reach infected areas is to formulate aerosols with surfactants that induce surface tension gradients and drive postdeposition drug dispersal via Marangoni transport along the airway surface liquid (ASL). Since this relies on surfactant-induced surface tension reduction, the presence of endogenous lipid monolayers may hinder drug dispersal performance. Methods: Tobramycin solutions were formulated with dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), a major component of endogenous pulmonary surfactant, to drive postdeposition aerosol dispersal across a model ASL based on a liquid layer or "subphase" of aqueous porcine gastric mucin (PGM) solution with predeposited DPPC monolayers to mimic the endogenous surfactant. In vitro subphase samples were collected from regions outside the aerosol deposition zone and assayed for tobramycin concentration using a closed enzyme donor immunoassay. The motion of a tracking bead across the subphase surface and the corresponding decrease in surface tension on aerosol deposition were tracked both with and without a predeposited DPPC monolayer. The surface tension/area isotherm for DPPC on PGM solution subphase was measured to aid in the interpretation of the tobramycin dispersal behavior. Results and Conclusions: Transport of tobramycin away from the deposition region occurs in aerosols formulated with DPPC whether or not predeposited lipid is present, and tobramycin concentrations are similar in both cases across biologically relevant length scales (∼8 cm). When DPPC is deposited from an aerosol, it induces ultralow surface tensions (<5 mN/m), which drive Marangoni flows, even in the presence of a dense background layer of DPPC. Therefore, aerosolized phospholipids, such as DPPC, will likely be effective spreading agents in the human lung.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.04.019
Title:Pulmonary administration of a dry powder formulation of the antifibrotic drug tilorone reduces silica-induced lung fibrosis in mice
Authors:V. VartiainenJ. RaulaL.M. BimboJ. ViinamäkiJ.T. BackmanN. UgurE. KauppinenE. SutinenE. JoensuuK. KoliM. Myllärniemi
Absract:The aim of this work was to study the antifibrotic effect of pulmonary administration of tilorone to lung fibrosis. L-leucine coated tilorone particles were prepared and their aerosolization properties were analyzed using two dry powder inhalers (Easyhaler and Twister). In addition, the biological activity and cell monolayer permeation was tested. The antifibrotic effect of tilorone delivered by oropharyngeal aspiration was studied in vivo using a silica-induced model of pulmonary fibrosis in mice in a preventive setting. When delivered from the Easyhaler in an inhalation simulator, the emitted dose and fine particle fraction were independent from the pressure applied and showed dose repeatability. However, with Twister the aerosolization was pressure-dependent indicating poor compatibility between the device and the formulation. The formulation showed more consistent permeation through a differentiated Calu-3 cell monolayer compared to pristine tilorone. Tilorone decreased the histological fibrosis score in vivo in systemic and local administration, but only systemic administration decreased the mRNA expression of type I collagen. The difference was hypothesized to result from 40-fold higher drug concentration in tissue samples in the systemic administration group. These results show that tilorone can be formulated as inhalable dry powder and has potential as an oral and inhalable antifibrotic drug.

doi:10.1128/IAI.00724-17
Title:Development of subunit vaccines that provide high-level protection and sterilizing immunity against acute inhalational melioidosis
Authors:M.N. BurtnickT.L. ShafferB.N. RossL.A. MuruatoE. SbranaD. DeShazerA.G. TorresP.J. Brett
Absract:Burkholderia pseudomallei, the etiologic agent of melioidosis, causes severe disease in humans and animals. Diagnosis and treatment of melioidosis can be challenging, and no licensed vaccines currently exist. Several studies have shown that this pathogen expresses a variety of structurally conserved protective antigens that include cell surface polysaccharides and cell-associated and cell-secreted proteins. Based on those findings, such antigens have become important components of the subunit vaccine candidates that we are currently developing. In the present study, the 6-deoxyheptan capsular polysaccharide (CPS) from B. pseudomallei was purified, chemically activated, and covalently linked to recombinant CRM197 diphtheria toxin mutant (CRM197) to produce CPS-CRM197. Additionally, tandem nickelcobalt affinity chromatography was used to prepare highly purified recombinant B. pseudomallei Hcp1 and TssM proteins. Immunization of C57BL/6 mice with CPSCRM197 produced high-titer IgG and opsonizing antibody responses against the CPS component of the glycoconjugate, while immunization with Hcp1 and TssM produced high-titer IgG and robust gamma interferon-secreting T cell responses against the proteins. Extending upon these studies, we found that when mice were vaccinated with a combination of CPS-CRM197 and Hcp1, 100% of the mice survived a lethal inhalational challenge with B. pseudomallei. Remarkably, 70% of the survivors had no culturable bacteria in their lungs, livers, or spleens, indicating that the vaccine formulation had generated sterilizing immune responses. Collectively, these studies help to better establish surrogates of antigen-induced immunity against B. pseudomallei as well as provide valuable insights toward the development of a safe, affordable, and effective melioidosis vaccine.

doi:10.1080/21645515.2017.1356952
Title:Developments in the formulation and delivery of spray dried vaccines
Authors:G. KanojiaR.T. HaveP.C. SoemaH. FrijlinkJ.-P. AmorijG. Kersten
Absract:Spray drying is a promising method for the stabilization of vaccines, which are usually formulated as liquids. Usually, vaccine stability is improved by spray drying in the presence of a range of excipients. Unlike freeze drying, there is no freezing step involved, thus the damage related to this step is avoided. The edge of spray drying resides in its ability for particles to be engineered to desired requirements, which can be used in various vaccine delivery methods and routes. Although several spray dried vaccines have shown encouraging preclinical results, the number of vaccines that have been tested in clinical trials is limited, indicating a relatively new area of vaccine stabilization and delivery. This article reviews the current status of spray dried vaccine formulations and delivery methods. In particular it discusses the impact of process stresses on vaccine integrity, the application of excipients in spray drying of vaccines, process and formulation optimization strategies based on Design of Experiment approaches as well as opportunities for future application of spray dried vaccine powders for vaccine delivery.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2016.04.024
Title:Sharpening nature's tools for efficient tuberculosis control: A review of the potential role and development of host-directed therapies and strategies for targeted respiratory delivery
Authors:G. O'ConnorL.E. GleesonA. Fagan-MurphyS.-A. CryanM.P. O'SullivanJ. Keane
Absract:Centuries since it was first described, tuberculosis (TB) remains a significant global public health issue. Despite ongoing holistic measures implemented by health authorities and a number of new oral treatments reaching the market, there is still a need for an advanced, efficient TB treatment. An adjunctive, host-directed therapy designed to enhance endogenous pathways and hence compliment current regimens could be the answer. The integration of drug repurposing, including synthetic and naturally occurring compounds, with a targeted drug delivery platform is an attractive development option. In order for a new anti-tubercular treatment to be produced in a timely manner, a multidisciplinary approach should be taken from the outset including stakeholders from academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and regulatory bodies keeping the patient as the key focus. Pre-clinical considerations for the development of a targeted host-directed therapy are discussed here.

pui:354721312
Title:Aerosol delivery devices in the treatment of asthma
Authors:D.R. Hess
Absract:Nebulizers convert solutions or suspensions into aerosols with a particle size that can be inhaled into the lower respiratory tract. There are pneumatic jet nebulizers, ultrasonic nebulizers, and mesh nebulizers. Newer nebulizer designs are breath-enhanced, breath-actuated, or have aerosol-storage bags to minimize aerosol loss during exhalation. Nebulizers can be used with helium-oxygen mixture and can be used for continuous aerosol delivery. Increased attention has recently been paid to issues related to the use of a facemask with a nebulizer. The pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) is a very commonly used device for aerosol delivery. There are press-and-breathe and breath-actuated pMDI designs. Issues related to pMDIs that have received increasing attention are the conversion to hydrofluoroalkane propellant and the use of dose counters. Many patients have poor pMDI technique. Valved holding chambers and spacers are used to improve pMDI technique and to decrease aerosol deposition in the upper airway. In recent years increasing attention has been paid to the issues of electrostatic charge and facemasks related to valved holding chambers. Many newer formulations for inhalation have been released in dry-powder inhalers, which are either unit-dose or multi-dose inhalers. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses have suggested that each of these aerosol delivery devices can work equally well in patients who can use them correctly. However, many patients use these devices incorrectly, so proper patient education in their use is critical. © 2008 Daedalus Enterprises.

doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-0395
Title:p53 aerosol formulationwith low toxicity and high efficiency for early lung cancer treatment
Authors:Y. ZouC. TornosX. QiuM. LiaR. Perez-Soler
Absract:Purpose: To develop an optimal nonviral aerosol formulation for locoregional treatment of early lung cancer. Experimental Design: The formulation was made of polylysine/protamine combination (AND) as the carrier and p53 gene (p53sm) as therapeutic agent. To estimate the aerosol deposition, the aerodynamic size of the AND-p53sm was measured with extrusion-precipitation method. To accurately determine the dose, the aerosol efficiency in mice was measured with a fluorescent dye. The transfection efficiency and DNA protection function of the aerosolized formulation in cultured cells and mouse lungs were detected with reporter gene assays and/or reverse transcription-PCR. The preclinical safety and efficacy of AND-p53sm were studied in healthy mice and mice bearing orthotopic human non - small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) xenograft. Results: After aerosolization, AND is 3- to 17-fold more effective than commonly used PEI or cationic lipid formulations in transfecting the NSCLC cells (relative light units, 1,494 versus 534 and 86; P < 0.003). Aerodynamic size of AND-p53sm ranged 0.2 to 3 μm is the optimal aerosol droplets for deposition in the entire human respiratory tract. Significant gene expression was detected in the lungs of mice given aerosolized AND-p53sm and AND-luciferase. Aerosolized AND-p53sm significantly prolonged the life of mice bearing orthotopic human NSCLC xenografts, and it was more effective than an optimal i.v. cisplatin chemotherapy (increased life span, 93% versus 25%; P = 0.014). Inhalation of AND produced low and reversible pulmonary toxicity and no systemic toxicity. Conclusions: This optimal formulation is suitable for delivering biological materials to human lung with aerosol administration. This therapeutic strategy is an option for patients with early lung cancer and bronchoalveolar carcinoma. ©2007 American Association for Cancer Research.

doi:10.1089/089426803321919870
Title:Evaluation of a new Aerodynamic Particle Sizer® spectrometer for size distribution measurements of solution metered dose inhalers
Authors:S.W. SteinP.B. MyrdalB.J. GabrioD. ObereitT.J. Beck
Absract:The ability of the Model 3320 and newer Model 3321 Aerodynamic Particle Sizer® Spectrometer (APS) to make accurate mass-weighted size distribution measurements of solution metered dose inhalers (MDIs) was evaluated. Measurements of experimental HFA-134a beclomethasone dipropionate MDIs were made with both the APS 3320 and APS 3321 and compared to the Andersen Cascade Impactor (ACI). The mass-weighted size distribution measurements from the ACI and APS 3321 agreed well but were very different than the APS 3320 measurements. Evaluation of the APS 3320 size distribution measurements indicated that the presence of a few erroneous particle measurements caused a gross overestimation of the mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) and geometric standard deviation (GSD). When a previously described technique was used to eliminate erroneous particle size measurements from the size distribution calculation, the MMAD and GSD from the APS 3320 agreed well with those from the ACI and APS 3321. The GSD from the APS 3321 and the APS 3320 after a mask was applied were slightly larger than from the ACI. It is believed that both APS instruments slightly underestimate the GSD while the ACI slightly overestimates the GSD. Further experiments were conducted using the APS 3321 to examine the influence of drug concentration and cosolvent level on the size distribution of solution formulation MDIs. The MMAD was shown experimentally and theoretically to be proportional to drug concentration to the one-third power. Cosolvent concentration had minimal influence on MMAD over the range examined. The measurements reported in this paper demonstrate that it is possible to obtain accurate mass-weighted size distribution measurements with the APS 3320 and APS 3321. These instruments allow for accurate size distribution measurements to be made in minutes as opposed to the hours required to conduct and analyze size distribution measurements from cascade impactors.

doi:10.1089/08942680152484126
Title:Deposition and pharmacokinetics of flunisolide delivered from pressurized inhalers containing non-CFC and CFC propellants
Authors:J. RichardsP. HirstG. PitcairnS. MahashabdeW. AbramowitzA. NoltingS.P. Newman
Absract:Our objective was to assess the deposition and pharmacokinetics of a novel formulation of flunisolide (Aerobid®, Forest Laboratories) in hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) 134a delivered by pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI). The design was a two-way crossover investigation in 12 healthy male subjects comparing HFA-134a flunisolide by pMDI versus pMDI plus 50 mL spacer device. Four of these subjects also took part in a two-way crossover investigation comparing chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) flunisolide pMDI versus pMDI plus Aerochamber holding chamber. The imaging technique of gamma scintigraphy was used to quantify total and regional lung deposition of flunisolide. Plasma levels of flunisolide and its major metabolite (6β-OH flunisolide) were also determined. The spacer and Aerochamber reduced oropharyngeal deposition dramatically for both the HFA and CFC products (mean 59.8 to 14.9% (p < 0.01) of ex-valve (metered) dose for HFA product; 66.3 to 12.3% (p < 0.01) of ex-valve dose for CFC product) owing to deposition of part of the dose on the walls of the add-on devices themselves. Lung deposition averaged 22.6 and 40.4% (p < 0.01) of the ex-valve dose for the HFA formulation used with pMDI alone and with pMDI plus spacer. Mean lung deposition of the CFC formulation delivered via the Aerochamber (mean 23.4%) was higher than that for the CFC pMDI alone (mean 17.0%), but this difference was not statistically significant. Lung deposition expressed as percentage ex-device (delivered) dose averaged 68.3% for HFA pMDI plus spacer and 19.7% for CFC pMDI. Plasma levels of flunisolide were higher for the pMDI plus spacer than for pMDI alone, reflecting higher lung deposition via the spacer, but plasma levels of the 6β-OH flunisolide metabolite were higher for the pMDI alone as a consequence of higher oropharyngeal deposition. When delivered via the spacer, pulmonary targeting of the flunisolide HFA formulation was improved compared with the CFC formulation, which should benefit patients by providing satisfactory asthma therapy from a much-reduced delivered dose of flunisolide.

doi:10.2165/00003088-200140060-00004
Title:Clinical pharmacokinetics of inhaled budesonide
Authors:R. DonnellyJ.P. Seale
Absract:The corticosteroid budesonide is a 1 : 1 racemic mixture of 2 epimers, (22R)- and (22S)-, and is available in 3 different inhaled formulations for the management of asthma: a pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI), a dry powder inhaler (DPI) and a solution for nebulised therapy. Inhaled corticosteroids such as budesonide reach the systemic circulation either by direct absorption through the lungs (a route that is much more important than previously recognised) or via gastrointestinal absorption of drug that is inadvertently swallowed. Although the pharmacokinetics of budesonide have been extensively investigated following oral and intravenous administration, relatively few studies have defined the systemic disposition of budesonide after inhalation. Drug deposition in the lungs depends on the inhaler device: 15% of the metered dose of budesonide reached the lung with a pMDI compared with 32% with a breath-actuated DPI. In patients with asthma (n = 38) receiving different doses of budesonide by DPI (Turbuhaler®), the pharmacokinetic parameters peak plasma concentration (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) and area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) were dose-dependent after both single dose and repeat dose (3 weeks) administration; time to C@sub_beginmax@sub_end (t@sub_beginmax@sub_end) was short (0.28 to 0.40 hours) and the elimination half-life approximately 3 hours. Both AUC and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end were linearly related to budesonide dose. In a small group of healthy male volunteers (n = 9), the pharmacokinetics of budesonide 1600μg twice daily via pMDI were assessed on the fifth day of administration. Mean model-independent parameters for (22R)-budesonide were as follows: C@sub_beginmax@sub_end 1.8μg/L, t@sub_beginmax@sub_end 0.46 hours, elimination half-life 2.3 hours and oral clearance 163 L/h, and there were no enantiomer-specific differences in drug disposition. Budesonide undergoes fatty acid conjugation within the lung, but very limited pharmacokinetic data are available to define the pulmonary absorption characteristics. There is evidence from a population analysis that the pulmonary absorption of budesonide is prolonged and shows wide interindividual variation. Further pharmacokinetic studies are required to define the time-course of budesonide absorption through the lung in specific patient groups, and to investigate the effect of new inhaler devices (especially chlorofluorocarbon-free pMDIs) on the pharmacokinetic profile and systemic drug exposure.

doi:10.1016/S1569-1993(21)00965-6
Title:Rescue of CFTR function in primary bronchial epithelial cells from patients with cystic fibrosis using lipid nanoparticle delivery of RNA-based therapies
Authors:M. TorresD. BoudkoE. MeleshkevitchM. CoquelinX. YuJ. EbyD. IshimaruM. HennigR. BridgesB. Wustman
Absract:Objectives: Evaluate delivery and rescue of CFTR function using ReCode designed RNA-lipid nanoparticle formulations in primary human bronchial epithelial (hBE) cells from patients with cystic fibrosis. Background: ReCode Therapeutics is developing RNA-based therapies to rescue CFTR function comprised of a lipid-nanoparticle RNA-based molecular therapy delivered locally by inhalation or systemically. In development are 3 approaches for rescuing CFTR function: A tRNA-based PTC (premature termination codon) corrector, a mutation agnostic CFTR mRNA compensator, and a mutation-specific CRISPR CFTR editing complex. Methods: Initial screening involved apical liquid or aerosol delivery of formulations to differentiated human bronchial epithelial (hBE) cells with homo and hetero combinations of F508del, G542X, R553X alleles followed by comparative western blot (WB), immunofluorescent (IF) detection of CFTR protein and transepithelial current clamp (TECC24) recording of Forskolin-induced Cl- current. Results: We have identified multiple formulations that deliver functional RNA into differentiated hBEs, including formulations nebulised and applied to hBE cultures from the apical side. Moreover, delivery of functional RNA (tRNA and mRNA) demonstrated significant rescue of CFTR function across multiple genotypes. IF analysis shows CFTR mRNA expression across different cell types including basal cells (p63 marker) and ionocytes (FoxI1 marker). Conclusions: Our data demonstrate the capability of the developed systems for delivering functional RNA that rescues CFTR function in well-differentiated hBE cultures. Significantly, ReCode formulations deliver RNA to basal cells, which may be required for long-term CFTR correction by gene-editing. Studies are ongoing to evaluate further the safety, PK, and tolerability of these formulations in vitro and in vivo.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2019.1577
Title:Pharmacokinetic Study of Epinephrine Hydrofluoroalkane (Primatene MIST) Metered-Dose Inhaler
Authors:E.M. KerwinT. MarrsM.Z. LuoJ.Y. Zhang
Absract:Background: Primatene® MIST CFC, an epinephrine metered-dose inhaler (MDI), was discontinued from the market owing to environmental concerns from its use of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellant. As a result, a new epinephrine MDI was developed using hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellant. This article reports the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of the newly Food and Drug Administration-approved epinephrine HFA MDI. Methods: A randomized, evaluator-blinded, active-controlled, single-dose, two-arm crossover study was conducted to evaluate the PK profile of epinephrine HFA (Primatene® MIST) and epinephrine CFC (Primatene® MIST CFC) in 23 healthy volunteers to characterize the epinephrine absorption extent and rate. The study was performed at a high dose of five times the normal dose to obtain measurable plasma epinephrine levels. Plasma epinephrine levels were measured and safety was assessed by adverse events (AEs), vital signs, clinical laboratory tests, and physical examinations. Results: Epinephrine HFA demonstrated a greater systemic drug exposure (greater area under the curve) than that of epinephrine CFC (∼37% higher). The Cmax occurred at ∼2 minutes and was significantly higher in the epinephrine HFA group (0.18 ng/mL) compared with the CFC version (0.046 ng/mL) at normal dose. Within 20 minutes, both groups demonstrated comparable plasma epinephrine levels. No clinically significant adverse effects were found to be associated with epinephrine HFA, even after an ultrahigh dose (i.e., 10 inhalations). Conclusions: The systemic exposure of epinephrine HFA was found to be higher for the first 20 minutes, and then comparable with epinephrine CFC. Minimal AEs were found in this study despite the very high 1250-2200 μg inhaled doses (i.e., 10 inhalations) used for PK characterization.

doi:10.1080/17425247.2020.1714589
Title:A consensus research agenda for optimising nasal drug delivery
Authors:B. ForbesR. BommerJ. GooleM. HellfritzschW. De KruijfP. LambertG. CaivanoA. RegardF. SchiarettiM. TrenkelL. VecellioG. WilliamsF. SonvicoR. Scherließ
Absract:Nasal drug delivery has specific challenges which are distinct from oral inhalation, alongside which it is often considered. The next generation of nasal products will be required to deliver new classes of molecule, e.g. vaccines, biologics and drugs with action in the brain or sinuses, to local and systemic therapeutic targets. Innovations and new tools/knowledge are required to design products to deliver these therapeutic agents to the right target at the right time in the right patients. We report the outcomes of an expert meeting convened to consider gaps in knowledge and unmet research needs in terms of (i) formulation and devices, (ii) meaningful product characterization and modeling, (iii) opportunities to modify absorption and clearance. Important research questions were identified in the areas of device and formulation innovation, critical quality attributes for different nasal products, development of nasal casts for drug deposition studies, improved experimental models, the use of simulations and nasal delivery in special populations. We offer these questions as a stimulus to research and suggest that they might be addressed most effectively by collaborative research endeavors.

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2018.06.006
Title:Repurposing drugs as inhaled therapies in asthma
Authors:S.D. Anderson
Absract:For the first 40 years of the 20th century treatment for asthma occurred in response to an asthma attack. The treatments were given by injection or orally and included the adrenergic agonists adrenalin/epinephrine and ephedrine and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor theophylline. Epinephrine became available as an aerosol in 1930. After 1945, isoprenaline, a non-selective beta agonist, became available for oral use but it was most widely used by inhalation. Isoprenaline was short-acting with unwanted cardiac effects. More selective beta agonists, with a longer duration of action and fewer side-effects became available, including orciprenaline in 1967, salbutamol in 1969 and terbutaline in 1970. The inhaled steroid beclomethasone was available by 1972 and budesonide by 1982. Spirometry alone and in response to exercise was used to assess efficacy and duration of action of these drugs for the acute benefits of beta@sub_begin2@sub_end agonists and the chronic benefits of corticosteroids. Early studies comparing oral and aerosol beta@sub_begin2@sub_end agonists found equivalence in bronchodilator effect but the aerosol treatment was superior in preventing exercise-induced bronchoconstriction. Inhaled drugs are now widely used including the long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end agonists, salmeterol and formoterol, and the corticosteroids, fluticasone, ciclesonide, mometasone and triamcinolone, that act locally and have low systemic bio-availability. Repurposing drugs as inhaled therapies permitted direct delivery of low doses of drug to the site of action reducing the incidence of unwanted side-effects and permitting the prophylactic treatment of asthma.

doi:10.1021/mp500745v
Title:Inhalable Dry Powder Formulations of siRNA and pH-Responsive Peptides with Antiviral Activity Against H1N1 Influenza Virus
Authors:W. LiangM.Y.T. ChowP.N. LauQ.T. ZhouP.C.L. KwokG.P.H. LeungA.J. MasonH.-K. ChanL.L.M. PoonJ.K.W. Lam
Absract:(Graph Presented) Pulmonary delivery of siRNA has considerable therapeutic potential for treating viral respiratory infectious diseases including influenza. By introducing siRNA that targets the conserved region of viral genes encoding nucleocapsid protein (NP), viral mRNAs can be degraded and viral replication can be inhibited in mammalian cells. To enable siRNA to be used as an antiviral agent, the nucleic acid delivery barrier must be overcome. Effective local delivery of siRNA to lung tissues is required to reduce the therapeutic dose and minimize systemic adverse effects. To develop a formulation suited for clinical application, complexes of pH-responsive peptides, containing either histidine or 2,3-diaminopropionic acid (Dap), and siRNA were prepared into dry powders by spray drying with mannitol, which was used as a bulking agent. The spray-dried (SD) powders were characterized and found to be suitable for inhalation with good stability, preserving the integrity of the siRNA as well as the biological and antiviral activities. The formulations mediated highly effective in vitro delivery of antiviral siRNA into mammalian lung epithelial cells, leading to significant inhibition of viral replication when the transfected cells were subsequently challenged with H1N1 influenza virus. SD siRNA powders containing pH-responsive peptides are a promising inhalable formulation to deliver antiviral siRNA against influenza and are readily adapted for the treatment of other respiratory diseases.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2013.11.013
Title:Evaluation of monophosphoryl lipid A as adjuvant for pulmonary delivered influenza vaccine
Authors:H.P. PatilS. MurugappanW. Ter VeerT. MeijerhofA. De HaanH.W. FrijlinkJ. WilschutW.L.J. HinrichsA. Huckriede
Absract:Prophylaxis against influenza could be improved by the development of a stable, easy to deliver, potent mucosal vaccine. In this study, we spray-freeze-dried (SFD) whole inactivated virus influenza vaccine (WIV) alone or supplemented with monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) using inulin as a lyoprotectant. Physical characterization revealed that the SFD powder consisted of highly porous particles with a size distribution suitable for pulmonary administration. The receptor-binding properties of WIV and the immunostimulatory properties of MPLA were preserved after spray-freeze-drying as indicated by unchanged hemagglutination titers and a retained ability of the vaccine to activate NFkB after incubation with a reporter cell line, respectively. Pulmonary vaccination of mice with MPLA-adjuvanted liquid or powder WIV resulted in induction of higher mucosal and systemic antibody concentrations than vaccination with non-adjuvanted formulations. When exposed to influenza virus, mice immunized with MPLA-adjuvanted pulmonary vaccine showed similar protection in terms of reduction in lung virus titers and prevention of weight loss as mice immunized intramuscularly with subunit vaccine. Characterization of the antibody response revealed a balanced IgG2a-to-IgG1 profile along with induction of both memory IgA- and IgG-producing B cells in mice immunized with MPLA-adjuvanted vaccine. These studies suggest that the mucosal and systemic immune responses to pulmonary delivered influenza vaccines can be significantly enhanced by using MPLA as adjuvant. MPLA-adjuvanted SFD vaccine was particularly effective implying that delivery of adjuvanted vaccine powder to the lungs can be an attractive way of immunization against influenza. © 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.0928
Title:Targeted delivery of transferrin-conjugated liposomes to an orthotopic model of lung cancer in nude rats
Authors:M.M. GasparA. RadomskaO.L. GobboU. BakowskyM.W. RadomskiC. Ehrhardt
Absract:Background: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Pulmonary anticancer therapy might offer several advantages over systemic delivery, leading to an increased exposure of the lung tumor to the drug, while minimizing side effects, due to regional containment. Here, we studied if a combination of inhalation therapy and drug targeting holds potential as an even more efficient lung cancer therapy. Methods: Transferrin (Tf)-conjugated PEG liposomes loaded with doxorubicin (DOX) were administered using an intracorporeal nebulizing catheter to an orthotopic lung cancer model established in athymic Rowett nude rats. Different DOX formulations and doses (0.2 and 0.4mg/kg) were tested and the influence on tumor progression and life span of rats was evaluated in comparison with the i.v. administration of Tf-PEG-liposomes loaded with DOX at a therapeutic dose of 2mg/kg. Results: Rats in the untreated control group showed significant weight loss 2 weeks after tumor induction and died between days 19 and 29. Lungs of these animals showed multiple foci of neoplastic deposits, ranging up to 20mm replacing the entire lobe. Empty Tf-liposomes showed a significant effect on survival time. This might be caused by the secondary cytotoxicity via stimulation of pulmonary macrophages. All animal treated intravenously also perished before the end of the study. No significant (p<0.05) improvement in survival was observed between the groups treated with aerosols of free drug, DOX encapsulated in plain and in Tf-modified liposomes. However, more animals survived in the Tf-liposome groups than in the other treatment regimes, and their lung tissue generally had fewer and smaller tumors. Nevertheless, the size of the groups, and the duration of the trial render it impossible to come to a definite conclusion. Conclusions: Drug targeting demonstrated potential for improving the aerosol treatment of lung cancer. © Copyright 2012, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. 2012.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2012.04.004
Title:In vitro and in vivo evaluation of a dry powder endotracheal insufflator device for use in dose-dependent preclinical studies in mice
Authors:C. DuretN. WauthozR. MerlosJ. GooleC. MarisI. RolandT. SebtiF. VanderbistK. Amighi
Absract:The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of the Penn-Century Dry Powder Insufflator for mice (DP-4 M®) to reproducibly, uniformly, and deeply deliver dry powders for inhalation in the mouse lung. Itraconazole-based dry powder formulations produced by spray-drying were different in terms of composition (different ratios of drug and mannitol, with or without phospholipids), but relatively similar in terms of particle size and mass median aerodynamic diameter. The ability of the dry powder insufflator to disaggregate each formulation was the same, indicated by the absence of a statistically significant difference between the particle size distribution parameters, as measured by laser scattering. The emitted fraction varied in vivo compared to the in vitro condition. Fluorescent particle distribution in the lungs was uniform and reached the alveolar spaces, as visualized by fluorescent microscopy. In terms of drug recovery in lung tissue, a minimum administered powder mass (in this case ∼1 mg) was necessary to recover at least 30% of the emitted dose in the lung and to obtain reproducible pulmonary concentrations. To reduce the dose administered in the lung, it was preferable to dilute the active ingredient within the carrier instead of reducing the dry powder mass inserted in the sampling chamber. Dry powder insufflators are devices usable in dose-dependent preclinical trials but have critical parameters to efficiently deliver reproducible doses depending on the type of formulation. © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1186/1471-2466-11-40
Title:Asthma control in patients receiving inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist fixed combinations. A real-life study comparing dry powder inhalers and a pressurized metered dose inhaler extrafine formulation
Authors:V. MüllerG. GálffyN. EszesG. LosonczyA. BizziG. NicoliniH. ChrystynL. Tamási
Absract:Background: Although patients have more problems using metered dose inhalers, clinical comparisons suggest they provide similar control to dry powder inhalers. Using real-life situations this study was designed to evaluate asthma control in outpatients with moderate to severe persistent asthma and to compare efficacy of fixed combinations of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long acting beta-agonists (LABA).Methods: This real-life study had a cross-sectional design. Patients using fixed combinations of ICS and LABA had their asthma control and spirometry assessed during regular visits.Results: 111 patients were analyzed: 53 (47.7%) received maintenance therapy of extrafine beclomethasone-formoterol (BDP/F) pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI), 25 (22.5%) fluticasone-salmeterol (FP/S) dry powder inhaler (DPI), and 33 (29.7%) budesonide-formoterol (BUD/F) DPI. Severity of asthma at time of diagnosis, assessed by the treating physician, was comparable among groups. Asthma control was achieved by 45.9% of patients; 38.7% were partially controlled and 15.3% were uncontrolled. In the extrafine BDF/F group, asthma control total score, daytime symptom score and rescue medication use score were significantly better than those using fixed DPI combinations (5.8 ± 6.2 vs. 8.5 ± 6.8; 1.4 ± 1.8 vs. 2.3 ± 2.1; 1.8 ± 2.2 vs. 2.6 ± 2.2; p = 0.0160; p = 0.012 and p = 0.025, respectively) and the mean daily ICS dose were significantly lower.Conclusions: pMDI extrafine BDP/F combination demonstrated better asthma control compared to DPIs formulated with larger particles. This could be due to the improved lung deposition of the dose or less reliance on the optimal inhalation technique or both. © 2011 Müller et al; licensee BioMed Central Ltd.

doi:10.1128/AAC.00103-08
Title:Stability of colistin methanesulfonate in pharmaceutical products and solutions for administration to patients
Authors:S.J. WallaceJ. LiC.R. RaynerK. CoulthardR.L. Nation
Absract:Colistin methanesulfonate (CMS) has the potential to hydrolyze in aqueous solution to liberate colistin, its microbiologically active and more toxic parent compound. While conversion of CMS to colistin in vivo is important for bactericidal activity, liberation of colistin during storage and/or use of pharmaceutical formulations may potentiate the toxicity of CMS. To date, there has been no information available regarding the stability of CMS in pharmaceutical preparations. Two commercial CMS formulations were investigated for stability with respect to colistin content, which was measured by a specific high-performance liquid chromatography method. Coly-Mycin M Parenteral (colistimethate lyophilized powder) was stable (<0.1% of CMS present as colistin) for at least 20 weeks at 4°C and 25°C at 60% relative humidity. When Coly-Mycin M was reconstituted with 2 ml of water to a CMS concentration of 200 mg/ml for injection, Coly-Mycin M was stable (<0.1% colistin formed) for at least 7 days at both 4°C and 25°C. When further diluted to 4 mg/ml in a glucose (5%) or saline (0.9%) infusion solution as directed, CMS hydrolyzed faster at 25°C (<4% colistin formed after 48 h) than at 4°C (0.3% colistin formed). The second formulation, CMS Solution for Inhalation (77.5 mg/ml), was stable at 4°C and 25°C for at least 12 months, as determined based on colistin content (<0.1%). This study demonstrated the concentration- and temperature-dependent hydrolysis of CMS. The information provided by this study has important implications for the formulation and clinical use of CMS products. Copyright © 2008, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

doi:10.3389/fphar.2020.592543
Title:Rationale for COVID-19 Treatment by Nebulized Interferon-β-1b–Literature Review and Personal Preliminary Experience
Authors:A. MaryL. HénautP.Y. MacqL. BadouxA. CappeT. PoréeM. EckesH. DupontM. Brazier
Absract:The inflammatory response to COVID-19 is specifically associated with an impaired type I interferon (IFN) response and complete blockade of IFN-β secretion. Clinically, nebulization of IFN-α-2b has been historically used in China to treat viral pneumonia associated with SARS-CoV. Very recent data show that the use of inhaled type I IFN is associated with decreased mortality in Chinese COVID-19 patients. However, IFN nebulization is currently not standard in Europe and the United States. Therefore, our group has set up a project aimed to evaluate the possibility to nebulize IFN-β-1b (a drug currently used in Europe to treat multiple sclerosis via subcutaneous injections) and to assess the safety of this new mode of administration in SARS-CoV-2 infected patients. We present here literature data that allowed us to build our hypothesis and to develop collaboration between clinical pharmacists, intensivists and nebulization engineers in order to gain first pre-clinical and clinical experience of IFN-β-1b nebulization. After validation of the nebulization method and verification of droplet size compatible with nebulization, the method has been applied to four intensive care patients treated at our university hospital, for whom none of the COVID-19 therapies initially used in France led to significant clinical improvement. All patients exhibited negative viral carriage and experienced clinical improvement 7–16 days after having initiated nebulized IFN-β-1b inhalation therapy. No side effects were observed. All patients were alive within a 90-days follow-up. Although it is not possible to draw firm conclusions on treatment efficacy based on this case report, our study shows that pulmonary IFN-β-1b administration is feasible, with a good safety profile. This procedure, which presents the advantage of directly targeting the lungs and reducing the risks of systemic side effects, may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for the care of patients with severe COVID-19. However, our preliminary observation requires confirmation by randomized controlled trials.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.02.013
Title:3D characterisation of dry powder inhaler formulations: Developing X-ray micro computed tomography approaches
Authors:P. GajjarI.D. StyliariT.T.H. NguyenJ. CarrX. ChenJ.A. ElliottR.B. HammondT.L. BurnettK. RobertsP.J. WithersD. Murnane
Absract:Carrier-based dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations need to be accurately characterised for their particle size distributions, surface roughnesses, fines contents and flow properties. Understanding the micro-structure of the powder formulation is crucial, yet current characterisation methods give incomplete information. Commonly used techniques like laser diffraction (LD) and optical microscopy (OM) are limited due to the assumption of sphericity and can give variable results depending on particle orientation and dispersion. The aim of this work was to develop new three dimensional (3D) powder analytical techniques using X-ray computed tomography (XCT) that could be employed for non-destructive metrology of inhaled formulations. α-lactose monohydrate powders with different characteristics have been analysed, and their size and shape (sphericity/aspect ratio) distributions compared with results from LD and OM. The three techniques were shown to produce comparable size distributions, while the different shape distributions from XCT and OM highlight the difference between 2D and 3D imaging. The effect of micro-structure on flowability was also analysed through 3D measurements of void volume and tap density. This study has demonstrated for the first time that XCT provides an invaluable, non-destructive and analytical approach to obtain number- and volume-based particle size distributions of DPI formulations in 3D space, and for unique 3D characterisation of powder micro-structure.

doi:10.1208/s12249-018-1278-7
Title:Promising Chitosan-Coated Alginate-Tween 80 Nanoparticles as Rifampicin Coadministered Ascorbic Acid Delivery Carrier Against Mycobacterium tuberculosis
Authors:I.R. ScolariP.L. PáezM.E. Sánchez-BorzoneG.E. Granero
Absract:The aim of this study was to design a nanocarrier system for inhalation delivery of rifampicin (RIF) in combination with ascorbic acid (ASC), namely constituted of sodium alginate coated with chitosan and Tween 80 (RIF/ASC NPs) as a platform for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis infection. A Box-Behnken experimental design and response surface methodology (RSM) were applied to elucidate and evaluate the effects of several factors on the nanoparticle properties. On the other hand, it was found that RIF/ASC NPs were less cytotoxic than the free RIF, showing a significantly improved activity against nine clinical strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tb) in comparison with the free drug. RIF/ASC NPs had an average particle size of 324.0 ± 40.7 nm, a polydispersity index of 0.226 ± 0.030, and a zeta potential of − 28.52 ± 0.47 mV and the surface was hydrophilic. The addition of sucrose (1% w/v) to the nanosuspension resulted in the formation of a solid pellet easily redispersible after lyophilization. RIF/ASC NPs were found to be stable at different physiological pH values. In summary, findings of this work highlight the potential of the RIF/ASC NP-based formulation development herein to deliver RIF in combination with ASC through pulmonary route by exploring a non-invasive route of administration of this antibiotic, increasing the local drug concentrations in lung tissues, the primary infection site, as well as reducing the risk of systemic toxicity and hence improving the patient compliance.

doi:10.1248/bpb.b18-00315
Title:Novel strategy for the systemic delivery of furosemide based on a new drug transport mechanism
Authors:S. KimuraA. KiriyamaE. NishimuraS. SakataD. InoueT. FurubayashiR. YutaniA. TanakaK. KusamoriH. KatsumiK. IgaA. YamamotoT. Sakane
Absract:We reported a novel transport mechanism of curcumin, independent of improved solubility, which involved direct contact of amorphous solid particles with the cell membrane. This mechanism has potential as a novel systemic delivery system of poorly water-soluble drugs. In this study, the transport mechanism of furosemide (FUR), which is transported by the same novel mechanism, was examined. In vitro cell permeation studies under air-interface conditions (AICs) revealed that the permeation from powders sprayed on cell monolayers was significantly higher than that under liquid-covered conditions (LCCs) from their solutions. The permeation from amorphous solid particles was faster than that from crystals. Similar results were derived from in vitro studies using an artificial membrane, with which the permeation of FUR could be examined without water. These findings clearly indicated that the transport mechanism of FUR is the same as that of curcumin. For the application of this new transport mechanism, the in vivo absorption of FUR was examined after pulmonary insufflation, which allows the solid particles to make direct contact with the epithelial cells. Pulmonary absorption of FUR from the amorphous powder was almost complete and was faster than that after intragastric administration of the solution, suggesting that FUR was absorbed from the lung by the same mechanism as the in vitro study. This new transport mechanism, which is independent of water dissolution, could be exploited to develop a novel delivery system for poorly water-soluble drugs, using pulmonary powder inhalation.

doi:10.1016/j.rmed.2013.03.009
Title:Real-life comparison of beclometasone dipropionate as an extrafine- or larger-particle formulation for asthma
Authors:D. PriceM. ThomasJ. HaughneyR.A. LewisA. BurdenJ. Von ZiegenweidtA. ChisholmE.V. HillyerC.J. Corrigan
Absract:Background Beclometasone dipropionate is an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) available in both extrafine and larger-particle hydrofluoroalkane formulations. Extrafine beclometasone has greater small airway distribution and inhalation technique tolerance than larger-particle beclometasone; therefore, its use may be associated with improved asthma outcomes at population levels. The study objective was to compare real-life effectiveness of extrafine and larger-particle beclometasone. Methods Retrospective matched cohort study including primary care patients with asthma (ages 12-60 and non-smokers 61-80 years) prescribed extrafine or larger-particle beclometasone by metered-dose inhaler. We studied patients receiving their first ICS (initiation population, n = 11,289) or switched from another ICS without dose change (switch population, n = 19,065). The extrafine and larger-particle beclometasone cohorts were matched in each population for demographic and database measures of asthma control during a baseline year; and endpoints assessed during 1 outcome year were adjusted for residual confounding factors. Results The odds of no loss of asthma control (no asthma-related hospital attendance, consultation for lower respiratory tract infection, or oral corticosteroids) were significantly higher in the extrafine beclometasone cohorts of both initiation population (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1.12; 95% CI 1.02-1.23) and switch population (aOR 1.10; 95% CI 1.01-1.19). The odds of better adherence to ICS therapy were also significantly higher in both extrafine beclometasone cohorts (initiation population, aOR 1.64; 95% CI 1.52-1.75 and switch population, aOR 1.35; 95% CI 1.27-1.43). Conclusions These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that delivery of beclometasone in extrafine particle size produces real-life asthma treatment benefits. Clinical trials no. NCT01400217.© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.antiviral.2013.03.014
Title:Influenza virus resistance to neuraminidase inhibitors
Authors:M. SamsonA. PizzornoY. AbedG. Boivin
Absract:In addition to immunization programs, antiviral agents can play a major role for the control of seasonal influenza epidemics and may also provide prophylactic and therapeutic benefits during an eventual pandemic. The purpose of this article is to review the mechanism of action, pharmacokinetics and clinical indications of neuraminidase inhibitors (NAIs) with an emphasis on the emergence of antiviral drug resistance. There are two approved NAIs compounds in US: inhaled zanamivir and oral oseltamivir, which have been commercially available since 1999-2000. In addition, two other NAIs, peramivir (an intravenous cyclopentane derivative) and laninamivir (a long-acting NAI administered by a single nasal inhalation) have been approved in certain countries and are under clinical evaluations in others. As for other antivirals, the development and dissemination of drug resistance is a significant threat to the clinical utility of NAIs. The emergence and worldwide spread of oseltamivir-resistant seasonal A(H1N1) viruses during the 2007-2009 seasons emphasize the need for continuous monitoring of antiviral drug susceptibilities. Further research priorities should include a better understanding of the mechanisms of resistance to existing antivirals, the development of novel compounds which target viral or host proteins and the evaluation of combination therapies for improved treatment of severe influenza infections, particularly in immunocompromised individuals. This article forms part of a symposium in Antiviral Research on "Treatment of influenza: targeting the virus or the host". © 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1016/s1569-1993(02)00002-4
Title:Inhaled antibiotic therapy: What drug? What dose? What regimen? What formulation?
Authors:A.L. Smith
Absract:Early studies of the use of antibiotics in patients with cystic fibrosis suggested that they would be of benefit in preventing or reducing infection by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In seeking to optimize treatment, factors such as the drug used, the dose, the regimen and the formulation must be considered. Aminoglycosides are ideal for aerosolization because they have a long postantibiotic effect and have an acceptable taste. Tobramycin is one of the aminoglycosides with the lowest systemic toxicity, which enables the aerosol delivery of doses high enough to overcome the antagonistic effects of the sputum. The most dramatic benefits from inhaled tobramycin have been shown to occur in the first 2-4 weeks of administration. Continual administration for longer periods can result in the development of resistance and loss of the improvement in lung function. However, this resistance is transient, and susceptibility to tobramycin returns after a short drug holiday. Optimal drug administration therefore consists of a 4-week on, 4-week off cycle. Such a cycle also helps to maintain patient compliance. Successful drug delivery also depends upon a formulation that does not provoke bronchoconstriction, which demands a formulation that is both preservative free, and osmotically and pH balanced. This research has enabled the development of a novel formulation of tobramycin optimized for use as an inhalation therapy in cystic fibrosis. © 2002 European Cystic Fibrosis Society. Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1081/PDT-120000290
Title:Pulmonary peptide delivery: Effect of taste-masking excipients on leuprolide suspension metered-dose inhalers
Authors:J.Y. ZhengM.-Y. FuluD.Y. LeeT.E. BarberA.L. Adjei
Absract:The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of taste-masking excipients on in vitro and in vivo performance of a leuprolide metered-dose inhaler (MDI) suspension formulation. Taste-masking excipients (aspartame and menthol) were added to a leuprolide suspension MDI formulation. The leuprolide MDI formulation with the taste-masking excipients was characterized in terms of milling time, particle size distribution, dose delivery and uniformity, and drug absorption in dogs. The data were compared with a formula that did not contain taste-masking excipients. It was found that the longer milling time for the leuprolide suspension with the taste-masking excipients was required to obtain a similar particle size distribution compared with the formula without taste-masking excipients using a fluid energy mill. Although measurable differences in mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) and geometric standard deviation (GSD) were not observed between the two formulations, the percent of particles ≤ 5 μm and the actuator retention for the formula with the taste-masking excipients were significantly different from the formula without taste-masking excipients using the Marple-Miller cascade impactor. Taste-masking excipients did not show a significant effect on valve delivery and through-can dose uniformity. However, the mean ex-actuator dose was 150.4 mg for the formula with the taste-masking excipients and 162.2 mg for the reference formula, respectively, indicating a significant difference. In tracheostomized dogs, both formulations showed comparable pharmacokinetic parameters including C@sub_beginmax@sub_end, T@sub_beginmax@sub_end, AUC@sub_begin0-12@sub_end and bioavailability (F%), indicating that the taste-masking excipients do not have an effect on lung absorption of leuprolide acetate. Therefore, inclusion of taste-masking excipients in the leuprolide MDI suspension formulation showed a significant impact on drug micronization, exactuator dose, and particle deposition pattern. Mechanistically, the unfavorable performance of leuprolide MDI in the presence of taste-masking excipients could be due to modification of the properties of the suspension itself and alteration of propellant evaporation following actuation.

doi:10.1016/0168-3659(94)90081-7
Title:Pulmonary delivery of therapeutic peptides and proteins
Authors:A. Adjei
Absract:There have been many attempts to improve systemic delivery of peptide and protein drugs by routes of administration other than by injection. Studies in this area of drug delivery have included nasal, rectal, buccal and the transdermal route of administration. There is little research in the area of pulmonary delivery of these compounds. Yet, the lung is unquestionably the most relevant site for delivering anti-asthmatic and mucolytic drugs. The human lung is a complex organ with high enzymatic activity. Yet it is effective for the delivery of locally acting drugs some of which are unstable to metabolizing enzymes. This makes it probable for the lung to become a feasible port for entry of peptide and protein drugs to the body. Being labile and refractory, survival to metabolizing enzymes and influence of airway filtration mechanisms make quantization of lung bioavailability of peptide and protein drugs a formidable effort. Furthermore, the effect of complex biophysical (e.g., inertial impaction) and biochemical factors (e.g., size, charge, permeability, lung clearance mechanisms) causes significant reduction of lower airway drug deposition. Subsequently, the efficiency of drug absorption from the lung is often orders of magnitude lower than it is for other routes. This manuscript reviews data on lung delivery of several peptidic compounds administered for either local or systemic effects. Leuprolide, a nonapeptide and analog of LH-RH is used as a model drug for those peptides administered via lung for a systemic pharmacological effect. A mechanistic approach to describe the bioavailability of leuprolide is described. The paper presents descriptive term (intrinsic, extrinsic and absolute bioavailability) used to describe the fractional bioavailability of this peptide. Reported data include the estimated bioavailable fractions from bolus dosages of either instillations or inhalation dosages of this nonapeptide, F, based on comparable injectable dosages (i.v. or s.c.). The extent of lung absorption correlated well with depth of drug deposition in the airways. There was quantitative absorption of drug deposited at the bifurcation of the trachea. This peptide has both the C and N terminals blocked. Therefore, it is stable to lung metabolizing enzymes. The discussion includes clinical perspectives and implications for using this method to estimate peptide absorption from the airways.

doi:10.7861/CLINMED.2020-0351
Title:Inhaled and systemic heparin as a repurposed direct antiviral drug for prevention and treatment of COVID-19
Authors:C. ConzelmannJ.A. MüllerL. PerkhoferK.M.J. SparrerA.N. ZelikinJ. MünchA. Kleger
Absract:Here, we advocate a highly favourable opportunity for the treatment of COVID-19 disease by repurposing a long-serving medical agent with an excellent history of clinical use, namely heparin. Heparin is best known as an anticoagulant, but it also exhibits direct antiviral activity against many enveloped viruses and has anti-inflammatory activity. The high incidence of thromboembolic events in COVID-19 patients suggests that coagulopathy plays an important role in the SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. This already makes heparin a unique, potentially curative agent that can be used immediately to help resolve the ongoing crisis associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 disease. We demonstrate here in vitro that heparin does indeed inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection. The three concurrent modes of activity of heparin (antiviral, anticoagulant and anti-inflammatory) against SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 form a unique therapeutic combination. Thus, repurposing of heparin to fight SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 appears to be a powerful, readily available measure to address the current pandemic.

doi:10.1208/s12249-020-01673-5
Title:The Stabilizing Excipients in Dry State Therapeutic Phage Formulations
Authors:Y. ZhangH. ZhangD. Ghosh
Absract:Phage therapy has gained prominence due to the increasing pathogenicity of “super bugs” and the rise of their multidrug resistance to conventional antibiotics. Dry state formulation of therapeutic phage is attractive to improve their “druggability” by increasing their shelf life, improving their ease of handling, and ultimately retaining their long-term potency. The use and selection of excipients are critical to stabilize phage in solid formulations and protect their viability from stresses encountered during the solidification process and long-term storage prior to use. Here, this review focuses on the current classes of excipients used to manufacture dry state phage formulations and their ability to stabilize and protect phage throughout the process, as discussed in the literature. We provide perspective of outstanding challenges involved in the formulation of dry state phage. We suggest strategies to improve excipient identification and selection, optimize the potential excipient combinations to improve phage viability during formulation, and evaluate new methodologies that can provide greater insight into phage-excipient interactions to improve design criteria to improve formulation of dry state phage therapeutics. Addressing these challenges opens up new opportunities to re-design and re-imagine phage formulations for improved efficacy as a pharmaceutical product.

doi:10.5414/CP202238
Title:Bioequivalence of budesonide plus formoterol (BF) Spiromax® and BF Turbohaler® (with and without charcoal block) in healthy volunteers
Authors:L. WeisfeldY. ShuT.P. Shah
Absract:Objective: Budesonide formoterol (BF) Spiromax® is a breath-actuated dry-powder inhaler designed to deliver similar combinations of budesonide and formoterol as Symbicort® Turbohaler®. We performed two studies to demonstrate pharmacokinetic (PK) equivalence of BF Spiromax with BF Turbohaler. Materials and methods: Two single-center, open-label, randomized, 5-period crossover studies were performed. The first study compared BF Spiromax 160/4.5 μg with BF Turbohaler 200/6 μg, while the second study compared BF Spiromax 320/9 μg with BF Turbohaler 400/12 μg. All treatments were administered with and without charcoal. PK parameters were calculated by measuring plasma drug concentrations from blood samples taken pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose. Results: In each study, 90 healthy volunteers were randomized. Bioequivalence of BF Spiromax with BF Turbohaler was demonstrated for budesonide and formoterol (AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end (90% confidence intervals of the geometric mean between-device ratios for both parameters were within the predefined range of 0.80-1.25 in both studies)). Equivalence was observed without use of charcoal (overall absorption post-inhalation) and with charcoal (pulmonary absorption). There were no major differences between treatments in t@sub_beginmax@sub_end for either budesonide or formoterol. All study treatments were well tolerated (one treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) in the medium-dose study and four TEAEs in the high-dose study). Conclusions: These studies indicate that BF Spiromax (± charcoal block) is bioequivalent to BF Turbohaler with respect to the PK parameters assessed. Single doses of BF Spiromax were well tolerated; the overall safety profile of BF Spiromax and BF Turbohaler was similar.

doi:10.1016/j.powtec.2012.04.057
Title:Preparation of rifampicin/lactose microparticle composites by a supercritical antisolvent-drug excipient mixing technique for inhalation delivery
Authors:C.A. OberL. KalomboH. SwaiR.B. Gupta
Absract:Rifampicin (RIF) is precipitated in the presence of inhalable lactose particles using a supercritical antisolvent-drug excipient mixing (SAS-DEM) technique to create RIF/lactose microparticle composites intended to improve the effectiveness of pulmonary tuberculosis treatments by increasing the respirable fraction of RIF. These RIF/lactose microparticle composites are prepared by dissolving RIF in a liquid solvent and spraying the solution into a high pressure vessel containing supercritical CO@sub_begin2@sub_end and suspended lactose particles. As the CO@sub_begin2@sub_end extracts the liquid solvent, RIF microparticles precipitate to form a microparticle composite mixture with the lactose particles. The effects of solvent, RIF concentration, and RIF to lactose loading are examined. The RIF/lactose microparticle composites are characterized for composition, particle size and surface morphology, crystallinity, thermal behavior, and physicochemical properties. By placing 1000mg of lactose microfine in the vessel and varying the spraying time of 1mg/mL and 5mg/mL RIF in methanol solutions, RIF/lactose microparticle composites of 1.2%, 7.2%, 14.0%, and 25.7% RIF with relative standard deviations of 5.7%, 4.5%, 5.2%, and 2.3%, respectively, are prepared. Based on scanning electron microscopy, homogeneous RIF/lactose composites consisting of spherical particles less than 8μm in diameter are produced. X-ray diffraction reveals that the SAS precipitation of RIF form I from methanol produces a polymorphic mixture of RIF form I and RIF dihydrate, due to trace water content in the solvent, while both RIF and lactose retain their individual crystalline structures during SAS-DEM processing. Based on differential scanning calorimetry RIF dihydrate converts to amorphous RIF upon heating. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy demonstrates the absence of chemical interactions between the RIF and lactose proving a physical composite of the two is produced by the SAS-DEM process, and indicating that the therapeutic effectiveness of the drug should be unaffected. © 2012 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1345/aph.1L273
Title:Compatibility and aerosol characteristics of formoterol fumarate mixed with other nebulizing solutions
Authors:S. AkapoJ. GuptaE. MartinezC. McCreaL. YeM. Roach
Absract:BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are often given admixtures of nebulizable drugs to minimize the time of administration in treatment regimens. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the physicochemical compatibility and aerodynamic characteristics of formoterol fumarate 20 μg/2 mL when mixed or sequentially nebulized with budesonide inhalation suspension 0.5 mg/2 mL, ipratropium bromide 0.5 mg/2.5 mL. cromolyn sodium 20 mg/2 mL, or acetylcysteine 10% (100 mg/mL). METHODS: The admixtures were prepared in triplicate and analyzed for physicochemical compatibility at 0, 15, 30, and 60 minutes after mixing at room temperature. Physical compatibility was determined by visual examination and measurements of pH, osmolality, and turbidity. Chemical stability was evaluated using compendial or in-house-validated high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assay methods. The aerodynamic characteristics of the admixtures or sequentially nebulized drugs were determined from aerosols generated from a Pari LC Plus nebulizer, using an 8-stage cascade impactor followed by HPLC analysis of the deposited drug. RESULTS: The admixtures remained clear, colorless solutions with no precipitation, except for cloudiness observed in the formoterol/budesonide combination due to budesonide suspension. The pH, osmolality, and turbidity for all admixtures were within the initial values (≤3%), and there were no significant changes (≤2%) in potency of the active components throughout the 1-hour study period. Due to increased drug volume or reconcentration in the nebulizer cup, the respirable fraction/delivered dose increased significantly (p < 0.05) for the mixed or sequentially nebulized drug. However, the fine particle fraction (FPF), mass median aerodynamic diameter, and geometric standard deviation generally remained unchanged for all admixtures, with the exception of FPF for the formoterol/budesonide combination. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that admixtures of formoterol with budesonide, ipratropium, cromolyn, or acetylcysteine are physically and chemically compatible. However, admixing or sequential nebulization significantly increased the amount of drug delivered compared with single drug nebulization. The clinical implications of the in vitro data in patients with COPD have not been determined.

doi:10.2165/00002512-199914030-00003
Title:Treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
Authors:A. EisenM. Weber
Absract:Survival of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is improving. Timely and more frequent implementation of bimodal passive airway pressure (BIPAP) and percutaneous endoscopically placed gastrostomy (PEG) may be the major factors impacting on longer survival. However, several drugs recently subjected to rigorous clinical trials have demonstrated significant results or encouraging trends. ALS is a complex disease in which aging neurons are subjected to a variety of susceptibility genes, most of which remain to be discovered, that interact with equally unrecognised environmental factors. This makes it unlikely that a single therapeutic agent will be of value. The thrust must be on polypharmacy. The 'cocktail' that will eventually be of greatest benefit has yet to be formulated. It might contain glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptor antagonists, antioxidants or a combination of trophic factors and neuroprotective agents. This statement is made with the understanding that the aetiopathogenesis of ALS is far from clear. Drug delivery is a problem and better delivery systems are needed. The efficacy of some of the medications that presently only induce modest benefit may be improved by liposomal packaging, use of a patch or inhalation delivery or intraventricular pump reservoirs. There is a great need to develop an early marker of ALS and sensitive reproducible measures of disease progression. This will curtail the present need for large, lengthy and very expensive clinical trials. The new millennium will see the advent of targeted therapy using viral vectors which can deliver replacement genes, trophic factors and other drugs to degenerating neurons; transplantation of neural progenitor cells which can become mature functioning neurons; anti-apoptotic agents which will allow neurons to survive longer; and mechanisms that can protect the telomerase maintenance system which is so crucial in the immortalisation of cells.

doi:10.1208/s12249-018-1101-5
Title:Development and Characterization of Dapsone Cocrystal Prepared by Scalable Production Methods
Authors:L.H. do AmaralF.A. do CarmoM.I. AmaroV.P. de SousaL.C.R.P. da SilvaG.S. de AlmeidaC.R. RodriguesA.M. HealyL.M. Cabral
Absract:In this study, the formation of caffeine/dapsone (CAF/DAP) cocrystals by scalable production methods, such as liquid-assisted grinding (LAG) and spray drying, was investigated in the context of the potential use of processed cocrystal powder for pulmonary delivery. A CAF/DAP cocrystal (1:1 M ratio) was successfully prepared by slow evaporation from both acetone and ethyl acetate. Acetone, ethyl acetate, and ethanol were all successfully used to prepare cocrystals by LAG and spray drying. The powders obtained were characterized by X-ray diffractometry (XRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetry (TGA), and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). Laser diffraction analysis indicated a median particle size (D@sub_begin50@sub_end) for spray-dried powders prepared from acetone, ethanol, and ethyl acetate of 5.4 ± 0.7, 5.2 ± 0.1, and 5.1 ± 0.0 μm respectively, which are appropriate sizes for pulmonary delivery by means of a dry powder inhaler. The solubility of the CAF/DAP cocrystal in phosphate buffer pH 7.4, prepared by spray drying using acetone, was 506.5 ± 31.5 μg/mL, while pure crystalline DAP had a measured solubility of 217.1 ± 7.8 μg/mL. In vitro cytotoxicity studies using Calu-3 cells indicated that the cocrystals were not toxic at concentrations of 0.1 and of 1 mM of DAP, while an in vitro permeability study suggested caffeine may contribute to the permeation of DAP by hindering the efflux effect. The results obtained indicate that the CAF/DAP cocrystal, particularly when prepared by the spray drying method, represents a possible suitable approach for inhalation formulations with applications in pulmonary pathologies.

doi:10.18433/jpps30048
Title:Preparation and characterization of spray-dried inhalable powders containing polymeric micelles for pulmonary delivery of paclitaxel in lung cancer
Authors:M. RezazadehZ. DavatsazJ. EmamiF. HasanzadehA. Jahanian-Najafabadi
Absract:Purpose: Local delivery of chemotherapeutic drugs to the lungs offers many advantages for lung cancer treatment compared to conventional systemic chemotherapy. In the present study, novel mixed polymeric micelles based on tocopheryl succinate-polyethylene glycol 1000 and 5000 Da (TPGS@sub_begin1K@sub_end and TPGS@sub_begin5K@sub_end) were synthesized and loaded with paclitaxel (PTX). Then, the optimized micelles were incorporated as colloidal drug delivery system into lactose carrier particles using a spray drying technique. Methods: The mixed micelles of TPGS@sub_begin5K@sub_end and TPGS@sub_begin1K@sub_end in different molar ratios (10:0, 7:3, 5:5, 3:7, 0:10) were prepared and physicochemical properties including: particle size, zeta potential, critical micelle concentration (CMC), drug loading, drug release rate, and in vitro cytotoxicitywere investigated in details. The optimized nanoparticles were co-spray dried with lactose carriers to produce the spherical particle morphology of the inhalable particles. Results: Particle sizes and zeta potentials of the different formulations varied in the range of 102 to 196 nm and-9.4 to-13.8 mV, respectively. The lowest CMC values were calculated for 5:5 and 7:3 combinations (16.33 and 17.89 µM, respectively). The drug release rate from different formulations were very slow and only 30% of the drug was released during 72 h. Cytotoxicity assay demonstrated increased cytotoxic activity of PTX-loaded mixed micelles compared to the free drug. The in vitro deposition data indicated that spray drying of PTX-loaded micelles with lactose resulted in the production of inhalable powders with the high fine particle fraction (60%). Conclusion: These results demonstrate that this novel PTX-loaded micelles embedded in dry powder inhalation aerosol platform has a great potential to be used in lung cancer treatment.

doi:10.1080/00325481.2016.1120642
Title:Routes of abuse of prescription opioid analgesics: A review and assessment of the potential impact of abuse-deterrent formulations
Authors:M. GasiorM. BondR. Malamut
Absract:Prescription opioid analgesics are an important treatment option for patients with chronic pain; however, misuse, abuse and diversion of these medications are a major global public health concern. Prescription opioid analgesics can be abused via intended and non-intended routes of administration, both intact or after manipulation of the original formulation to alter the drug-delivery characteristics. Available data indicate that ingestion (with or without manipulation of the prescribed formulation) is the most prevalent route of abuse, followed by inhalation (snorting, smoking and vaping) and injection. However, reported routes of abuse vary considerably between different formulations. A number of factors have been identified that appear to be associated with non-oral routes of abuse, including a longer duration of abuse, younger age, male sex and a rural or socially deprived location. The development of abuse-deterrent formulations of prescription opioid analgesics is an important step toward reducing abuse of these medications. Available abuse-deterrent formulations aim to hinder extraction of the active ingredient, prevent administration through alternative routes and/or make abuse of the manipulated product less attractive, less rewarding or even aversive. There are currently five opioid analgesics with a Food and Drug Administration abuse-deterrent label, and a number of other products are under review. A growing body of evidence suggests that introduction of abuse-deterrent opioid analgesics in the USA has been associated with decreased rates of abuse of these formulations. The availability of abuse-deterrent formulations therefore appears to represent an important step toward curbing the epidemic of abuse of prescription opioid analgesics, while ensuring the availability of effective pain medications for patients with legitimate medical need.

doi:10.3109/01902148.2015.1064492
Title:Preclinical safety evaluation of submicronized sildenafil citrate nebulization solution in small experimental animals
Authors:P. AgrawalS. SoniG. MittalA. Bhatnagar
Absract:Purpose: Sildenafil citrate (SC) nebulization solution has the potential to treat pulmonary hypertension by delivering high concentration directly to the respiratory system while minimizing systemic drug exposure and associated toxicity. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the potential toxicity of aerosolized SC (inhaled) in Sprague dawley rats for 28 days. Materials and methods: The rats were randomly divided into five groups (n = 6). Placebo (normal saline) was inhaled to group I (control). Group II was exposed to therapeutic dose (TD): 20 mg/kg, while group 3 and group 4 were exposed to 3TD and 6TD, respectively, till 28 days and toxicokinetic parameters were evaluated in group V. The particle size of the nebulized solution of SC (1%) was measured by using Anderson Cascade Impactor. At the end of experiment, all animals were sacrificed. Endpoints used to evaluate potential toxicity of inhaled sildenafil citrate were clinical observations, body weight, and clinical pathology along with broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) Fluid investigation. Results and conclusions: ACI study has shown that more than 70% aerosolized drug particles were in submicron range (0.3-0.5μm). There was no systemic toxicity or clinically limiting local respiratory toxicity associated with inhalation exposure to SC nebulization solution at 6TD. No significant changes were observed in the level of different blood and BALF parameters in treated groups in comparison to control. Histopathological examination revealed no abnormal findings in the animals of treated group. The data demonstrate that aerosolized sildenafil citrate is well tolerated in rats and suggest its use in humans.

doi:10.1183/09031936.00090314
Title:Inhaled antibiotics: Dry or wet?
Authors:H.A.W.M. TiddensA.C. BosJ.W. MoutonS. DevadasonH.M. Janssens
Absract:Dry powder inhalers (DPIs) delivering antibiotics for the suppressive treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis patients were developed recently and are now increasingly replacing time-consuming nebuliser therapy. Noninferiority studies have shown that the efficacy of inhaled tobramycin delivered by DPI was similar to that of wet nebulisation. However, there are many differences between inhaled antibiotic therapy delivered by DPI and by nebuliser. The question is whether and to what extent inhalation technique and other patient-related factors affect the efficacy of antibiotics delivered by DPI compared with nebulisers. Health professionals should be aware of the differences between dry and wet aerosols, and of patient-related factors that can influence efficacy, in order to personalise treatment, to give appropriate instructions to patients and to better understand the response to the treatment after switching. In this review, key issues of aerosol therapy are discussed in relation to inhaled antibiotic therapy with the aim of optimising the use of both nebulised and DPI antibiotics by patients. An example of these issues is the relationship between airway generation, structural lung changes and local concentrations of the inhaled antibiotics. The pros and cons of dry and wet modes of delivery for inhaled antibiotics are discussed.

doi:10.1016/j.jchromb.2013.05.021
Title:A simplified procedure for the analysis of formoterol in human urine by liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry: Application to the characterization of the metabolic profile and stability of formoterol in urine
Authors:M. MazzarinoX. de la TorreI. FiaccoC. PompeiF. CalabreseF. Botrè
Absract:Since 1992, formoterol is included in the prohibited list of doping substances and methods, presently reviewed and updated by the World Anti-Doping Agency. Recently a threshold value of 40ng/mL has been established to differentiate between the prohibited (oral) and the permitted (inhalatory) administration of formoterol to athletes. This paper considers the urinary excretion profile of formoterol and its main metabolites after inhalation of different doses of two of the most used medicaments, available in Italy, containing formoterol fumarate bihydrate (12 and 36μg twice a day of Foradil@sup_begin®@sup_end or 9 and 27μg twice a day of Symbicort@sup_begin®@sup_end), focusing also on the effects, on the measured levels of formoterol, of potential alteration processes (thermal and/or microbiological) that may take place after the collection of the urine samples. Urine sample preparation included an enzymatic hydrolysis and a dilution step. Detection of analytes was performed by a newly developed and validated direct LC-ESI-MS/MS procedure, using a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer under positive ion electro-spray ionization conditions and selected reaction monitoring acquisition mode. The results showed the capability and suitability of the direct LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis for the quantitative confirmation analysis of formoterol in urine samples. The data from the analysis of the urine samples obtained in the excretion studies showed that formoterol is excreted mainly as unmodified drug and to a lesser degree as O-demethylated metabolite. The urinary levels of formoterol (40-60%) and its metabolites (O-demethylated metabolite 5-25%; glucuronide metabolites 25-40%) vary significantly depending both on the administered drug formulation and the subject tested. The maximum urinary concentration reached in this study was 15ng/mL (free+glucuronide), that is significantly lower than the threshold value fixed to report an adverse analytical finding. Finally, our results also showed that formoterol is stable for at least 4 weeks in urine samples correctly collected and stored. © 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.2174/187221109788452267
Title:Recent trends in oral drug delivery: A review
Authors:H. GuptaD. BhandariA. Sharma
Absract:There are many ways to deliver drugs into the body, viz oral (through swallowing), sub mucosal (through buccal and sublingual mucosa), parenteral (through injection), transdermal (through skin), pulmonary (through inhalation) etc. Among these deliveries oral delivery (by swallowing) is widely accepted. In oral drug delivery, many scientific challenges and breakthrough technologies are required to generate novel dosage forms raising drug delivery to higher level. Some are self emulsifying systems, solid self nanoemulsion, polymeric micelles, spray freezing, pH controlled systems, time delayed system, osmotic pumps, prodrugs etc. This paper reviews recent patents, technologies and products with their importance, manufacturing and novel approaches implemented till date to overcome the challenges in oral drug delivery systems. © 2009 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

pui:352024494
Title:Inhaled, dry powder insulin
Authors:J.J. NeumillerY.L. MaiS.M. SetterJ.L. IltzR.K. Campbell
Absract:Diabetes mellitus (DM) currently affects an estimated 20.8 million people within the United States, with a current worldwide prevalence estimated at 180 million and which is expected to double by 2030. Despite the many advances in the management of both type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in recent years, the average glycated hemo globin test (HbA1c) result of patients with diabetes increased from 7.7% to 7.9% between 1990 and 1999. Strong evidence exists demonstrating the benefits of tight glycemic control in T1DM and T2DM patients; however, glycemic goals are not adequately achieved for many patients. While people with T1DM require insulin, many T2DM patients could improve their glycemic control by the initiation of insulin therapy, but they are either not prescribed insulin or have fear associated with the injection process. The advent of dry powdered insulin delivered by pulmonary inhalation provides an alternative mode of delivery for patients with perceived barriers to the use of insulin. One clinical trial looked at the acceptance of insulin therapy in 700 participants with T2DM and an HbA1c result greater than 8%. The subjects in this study were randomized to receive information regarding the risks and benefits of various treatment options. A treatment regimen that included insulin was opted for by 43.2% of patients in the group that had received information on inhaled, dry powder insulin (IDPI), compared with 15.5% of those offered information only on subcutaneous (SC)insulin therapy. Results from this trial suggest that availability of inhaled insulin may increase acceptance of insulin therapy in patients not currently using insulin. This review will discuss the clinical pharmacology, tolerability, contraindications and precautions, side effects, and special considerations of the currently marketed IDPI product Exubera.

doi:10.1007/s00228-002-0466-1
Title:Pharmacokinetics of beclomethasone 17-monopropionate from a beclomethasone dipropionate extrafine aerosol in adults with asthma
Authors:L.I. HarrisonS. KurupC. WagnerB.P. EkholmJ.S. LarsonH.B. Kaiser
Absract:Objective: The objectives of this study were to test the dose and strength proportionalities of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) delivered from two strengths of a pressurized extrafine solution formulation. Methods: Thirty adults with mild, stable asthma, aged between 18 years and 70 years, completed the study; written informed consent was obtained from all patients. Each patient received, according to a randomized four-period crossover design, 100 μg BDP as two inhalations from 50-μg/actuation strength, 100 μg BDP as one inhalation from 100-μg/actuation strength, 400 μg BDP as eight inhalations from the 50-μg/actuation strength, and 400 μg BDP as four inhalations from the 100-μg/actuation strength. Patients self-administered all inhalations at the same time of day during the study. Blood samples were collected for 12 h during each period to assay for the presence of BDP and metabolites. The log-transformed pharmacokinetic data were compared for proportionality equivalence using a confidence-interval approach. Results: Almost all the BDP-derived material in the plasma was the active metabolite beclomethasone 17-monopropionate (17-BMP). Due to low levels, neither elimination half-life (t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end) nor the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) for 17-BMP could be calculated for the 100-μg BDP doses. Dose proportionality of the 100-μg and 400-μg BDP doses, using 17-BMP maximum plasma concentration (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) was demonstrated for each strength. Strength proportionality of the 50-μg and 100-μg/actuation strengths was observed for C@sub_beginmax@sub_end at both dose levels and for AUC at the higher dose level. The t@sub_begin1/2@sub_end of 17-BMP was found to be approximately 2.8 h. Conclusion: This study demonstrated both the strength and dose proportionalities of the BDP extrafine aerosol. This important information will allow physicians maximum flexibility in prescribing this aerosol product.

pui:29269231
Title:@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-ENS: A new radiopharmaceutical for aerosol lung scintigraphy. Comparison between different freeze-dried formulations
Authors:G.P. CalmanoviciJ.R. BoccioA.E. LysionekM.J. SalgueiroA. HagerT. De PaoliM.L. CalcagnoJ. NicoliniM. TarlatiR.A. CaroM.B. Zubillaga
Absract:Exogenous natural surfactant (ENS) labeled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTC (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-ENS) is a new radiopharmaceutical for pulmonary aerosol scintigraphy. In this study, different freeze-dried formulations were evaluated to develop a suitable and long-storage method for the ENS, the nonradioactive precursor of this radiopharmaceutical. Methods: Two freeze-dried formulations were evaluated: the sterile ENS suspension-stannous chloride altogether lyophilized (chlorlioENS) and the lyophilized sterile ENS suspension with the addition of stannous chloride as a solid drug (lioENS). These precursors were stored at room temperature for 3 mo and then labeled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc. For comparative purposes, the sterile ENS suspension with the addition of stannous chloride labeled with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTC (@sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-chlorENS) was also studied. The quality controls for each radiopharmaceutical were performed by an ascending paper chromatography to determine the labeling yield percentages. The study was performed in 30 female Sprague Dawley rats, which inhaled each radiopharmaceutical by nebulization. Twenty-five minutes after the aerosol inhalation, the animals were killed to extract their organs and measure their activity in a gamma spectrometer. The data are given as the percentage of activity concentration (C%) for each organ. Results: The physicochemical properties of lioENS were adequate for a freeze-dried product. The labeling yields for @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-lioENS and for @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-chlorENS were always greater than 95% even after nebulization. The results of the biologic distribution studies showed that the activity concentration found in lungs for these radiopharmaceuticals were 95.7% ± 2.6% and 96.7% ± 2.6% respectively, results that do not differ statistically. On the other hand, the activity concentration found in lungs for the @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-chlorlioENS (31.3% ± 11.1%) and its labeling yield percentages (<10%) are statistically different (P < 0.05) from the results obtained with the two radiopharmaceuticals mentioned above. Conclusion: Taking into account the lioENS physicochemical properties, its long shelf life and that @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-lioENS shows the same radiochemical and radiopharmacological behavior of the @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-chlorENS, it can be concluded that the @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-lioENS can be used for aerosol lung scintigraphy.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.121122
Title:Inhaled Edoxaban dry powder inhaler formulations: Development, characterization and their effects on the coagulopathy associated with COVID-19 infection
Authors:M.A. RashidS. MuneerJ. MendhiM.Z.R. SabujY. AlhamhoomY. XiaoT. WangE.L. IzakeN. Islam
Absract:Herein, we demonstrated the development and characterization of a dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulation of edoxaban (EDX); and investigated the in-vitro anticoagulation effect for the management of pulmonary or cerebral coagulopathy associated with COVID-19 infection. The formulations were prepared by mixing the inhalable micronized drug with a large carrier lactose and dispersibility enhancers, leucine, and magnesium stearate. The drug-excipient interaction was studied using X-Ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) methods. The drug and excipients showed no physical inter particulate interaction. The in-vitro drug aerosolization from the developed formulation was determined by a Twin Stage Impinger (TSI) at a flow rate of 60 ± 5 L /min. The amount of drug deposition was quantified by an established HPLC-UV method. The fine particle fraction (FPF) of EDX API from drug alone formulation was 7%, whereas the formulations with excipients increased dramatically to almost 7-folds up to 47%. The developed DPI formulation of EDX showed a promising in-vitro anticoagulation effect at a very low concentration. This novel DPI formulation of EDX could be a potential and effective inhalation therapy for managing pulmonary venous thromboembolism (VTE) associated with COVID-19 infection. Further studies are warranted to investigate the toxicity and clinical application of the inhaled EDX DPI formulation.

doi:10.1111/1753-0407.13099
Title:Understanding inhaled Technosphere Insulin: Results of an early randomized trial in type 1 diabetes mellitus
Authors:J.B. McGillD. WeissM. GrantM.C. JonesD.M. KendallB.J. Hoogwerf
Absract:Background: Technosphere Insulin (TI) is an inhaled insulin. Studies comparing TI with short-acting insulin analogues provide important insights on efficacy, dosing, and time course of action. Methods: Planned enrollment of 230 subjects was limited to 138 due to premature study discontinuation. The primary efficacy endpoint was a noninferiority of glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of 0.4% for TI compared with insulin lispro (LIS) in a 16-week phase 3 randomized clinical trial in type 1 diabetes mellitus. Results: HbA1c values were similar in the TI and LIS groups at the beginning of the trial (7.8% and 7.6%, respectively) and at trial endpoint (7.7% and 7.6%, respectively). Least squares mean changes from baseline were similar between study groups. Glucose values after a standard meal were significantly lower with TI in the first 90 minutes post meal compared with LIS. Mild or moderate hypoglycemia event rates were also significantly lower with TI compared with LIS (5.97 vs 8.01, respectively; P =.0269). Cough was the most commonly reported adverse event with TI. Pulmonary function as measured by forced expiratory volume in 1 second was not different between groups at baseline, 16 weeks, or 4 weeks off study drug. Conclusions: HbA1c was unchanged and overall glucose control was comparable between groups. Treatment with TI resulted in improved post-meal glucose and a lower risk of hypoglycemia compared with LIS.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2015.09.034
Title:Pulmonary dry powder vaccine of pneumococcal antigen loaded nanoparticles
Authors:N.K. KundaI.M. AlfagihE.N. MiyajiD.B. FigueiredoV.M. GonçalvesD.M. FerreiraS.R. DennisonS. SomavarapuG.A. HutcheonI.Y. Saleem
Absract:Pneumonia, caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, mainly affects the immunocompromised, the very young and the old, and remains one of the leading causes of death. A steady rise in disease numbers from non-vaccine serotypes necessitates a new vaccine formulation that ideally has better antigen stability and integrity, does not require cold-chain and can be delivered non-invasively. In this study, a dry powder vaccine containing an important antigen of S. pneumoniae, pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA) that has shown cross-reactivity amongst serotypes to be delivered via the pulmonary route has been formulated. The formulation contains the antigen PspA adsorbed onto the surface of polymeric nanoparticles encapsulated in l-leucine microparticles that can be loaded into capsules and delivered via an inhaler. We have successfully synthesized particles of ∼150 nm and achieved ∼20 μg of PspA adsorption per mg of NPs. In addition, the spray-dried powders displayed a FPF of 74.31 ± 1.32% and MMAD of 1.70 ± 0.03 μm suggesting a broncho-alveolar lung deposition facilitating the uptake of the nanoparticles by dendritic cells. Also, the PspA released from the dry powders maintained antigen stability (SDS-PAGE), integrity (Circular dichroism) and activity (lactoferrin binding assay). Moreover, the released antigen also maintained its antigenicity as determined by ELISA.

doi:10.2174/1567201811666140822113207
Title:The effects of loaded carrier mass and formulation mass on aerosolization efficiency in dry powder inhaler devices
Authors:J. OoiC. GillP.M. YoungD. Traini
Absract:Previous studies have suggested that particle-particle impaction may influence aerosolization properties in carrier-based dry powder inhalers, through transfer of kinetic energy from large carriers to surfacedeposited active drug. The importance of particle-particle collision has yet to be compared against other mechanisms that could lead to drug liberation, such as particle-wall impaction and turbulence. In particular, particle-particle collisions are difficult to model in silico due to computational restrictions. This study investigated the effects of dry powder inhaler particle-particle collisions in vitro using an established carrier-drug model dry powder inhalation formulation. Spherical polystyrene beads of median size 82.80 μm were chosen as a model carrier as they were of uniform size, shape, surface area, density, porosity and hardness and thus eliminated potential variables that would have conflicted with the study. This model carrier was geometrically blended with micronized salbutamol sulphate (loaded blend). The correlation between the mass of loaded blend (5-40 mg) in the Rotahaler® DPI device and resulting fine particle fraction (FPF) was examined at a constant flow rate of 60 L.min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. In a second experiment, the mass of loaded blend was kept constant and a variable amount of blank carrier particles were added to the Rotahaler® device to ascertain if additional “blank” carrier particles affected the final FPF. The efficiency of aerosolization remained constant with varying amounts of blank carrier particles as determined by the fine particle fraction of the emitted dose (FPF@sub_beginED@sub_end) and fine particle fraction of the loaded dose (FPF@sub_beginLD@sub_end). No statistical difference in FPF@sub_beginED@sub_end and FPF@sub_beginLD@sub_end values were observed for increasing masses of blank carrier. In addition, no statistical difference in FPF@sub_beginED@sub_end and FPF@sub_beginLD@sub_end between the two experiments was obtained. These observations suggest that particle-particle collisions are not a driving mechanism responsible for deaggregation of drug from carrier-based systems.

doi:10.3109/08958378.2014.975875
Title:The safety of ethambutol dihydrochloride dry powder formulations containing chitosan for the possibility of treating lung tuberculosis
Authors:M.I. AhmadT. NakphengT. Srichana
Absract:Objective: The aim of this study was to conduct in vitro studies of a dry powder formulation of ethambutol dihydrochloride (EDH) to determine if it was an acceptable candidate for further in vivo studies to target alveolar macrophages for the treatment of lung tuberculosis. Materials and methods: Nanosized drug particles were prepared by optimizing the spray drying conditions. The cell toxicities were determined by interacting the formulations with respiratory cell lines (A549, calu-3 and NR8383 cell lines), and phagocytosis of the formulations was tested on a macrophage cell line. Permeations of the EDH formulations across a lipid bilayer were studied using the Ussing chamber and HPLC. Bioactivity tests of the formulations were carried out by using the resazurin method on M. bovis cells. Result and discussion: Spray rate and inlet temperature were the two most important factors that affected the size and % yield of the product. The % cell viability of A549 cells with all EDH formulations, pure EDH and chitosan carrier was higher than 80%, the calu-3 cell line had % viabilities of between 85 and 99%, and the % viability of NR8383 cells was between 81 and 100%. The pure EDH had a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 2g/mL while the EDH formulations had MIC values of less than 1g/mL when tested against M. bovis. The formulation was completely phagocytized by the macrophage cells after 30min. The permeability of pure EDH across lipid bilayer was 48.7% after 2h while in the EDH formulations it was enhanced to 71%. Conclusion: The EDH formulations showed a lower toxicity, higher potency and better permeation than the pure EDH. Thus, EDH DPI formulations could help to minimize the duration of treatment and the risk of developing multidrug resistance tuberculosis compared to the non-formulated EDH.

doi:10.2217/nnm.09.8
Title:Nanomedicine for the management of lung and blood diseases
Authors:D.B. Buxton
Absract:Nanotechnology provides a broad range of opportunities to develop new solutions for clinical problems. For the pulmonary field, nanotechnology promises better delivery of drugs and nucleic acid-based therapeutics to disease sites. Administration of therapeutics via inhalation provides the opportunity for direct delivery to the lung epithelium, the lining of the respiratory tract. By appropriate selection of particle size, deep lung delivery can be obtained with control of phagocytic uptake, the removal of particles by resident macrophages. Nanotechnology can also help in pulmonary therapies administered by intravenous and oral routes through targeting specific cell types and controlling bioavailability and release kinetics. In the hematology field, nanotechnology can counter multiple drug resistance in leukemia by blocking drug efflux from cancer cells, and provide effective delivery of siRNA into lymphocytes to block apoptosis in sepsis. Controlling the surface properties of materials on devices such as valves and stents promises improved biocompatibility by inhibition of thrombosis, the formation of blood clots, and regulating cell adhesion and activation. Nanoparticle-based thrombolytic agents have the potential to improve the effectiveness of clot removal. Treatment of both lung and blood diseases is also likely to benefit from nano-scaffold-based methods for controlling the differentiation and proliferation of stem and progenitor cells.

doi:10.2174/092986707780597925
Title:Inhaled insulin and the lung
Authors:L. FusoD. PitoccoR.A. Incalzi
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of insulin is more than a promise in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. Inhaled insulin seems at least as efficacious as the conventional regimen of subcutaneous insulin and/or oral glucose-lowering agents in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Improved metabolic control and the use of a non-invasive route of administration represent the main benefits of this new treatment. Several physico-chemical factors could reduce the bioavailability of inhaled insulin. Indeed, both deep-lung deposition and adsorption of insulin variously depend on the type of propellants used, speed of air flow, particle size and velocity, drug deposition into the throat and larger bronchial tree. These factors, in turn, depend on the pulmonary delivery systems used and on respiratory mechanics and flows. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetics of inhaled insulin is affected by smoke, which increases its absorption, and by lung diseases, which decrease the available alveolar-capillary surface. Selected abnormalities of respiratory function complicate both type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus and a mild depression of carbon monoxide lung transfer after a 6-month period of treatment with inhaled insulin has been reported. Finally, results from some longitudinal studies suggest that diabetes might speed up the age-related decline of lung volumes and probably alter the pharmacokinetics of inhaled insulin, particularly in the elderly. Clarifying these issues is mandatory in order to define the indications and safety of inhaled insulin. © 2007 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(97)00113-0
Title:In vitro evaluation of dry powder inhalers I: Drug deposition of commonly used devices
Authors:H. SteckelB.W. Müller
Absract:Inhalation of aerosolized drugs has become the therapy of choice for the treatment of lung diseases. The most commonly used device, the pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI), however, relied on propellants that were found to deplete the ozone layer. To overcome this drawback dry powder inhalers (DPI) have been developed and MDIs with alternative propellants have been introduced recently. Several products are available by now. This study was carried out to evaluate the accuracy of the dose and the theoretically respirable fraction emitted from commonly used DPIs. In vitro measurements were performed using the Twin Impinger (Appendix A, British Pharmacopoiea, 1993) and a self constructed Four Stage Impinger at the standard flow rate of 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. Eleven dry powder formulations that are commercially available on the german market were tested with eight dry powder devices: Pulmicort(TM) and Aerodur(TM) Turbuhaler(TM), Intal(TM) Spinhaler(TM), Flui(TM) SCG and Cromolyn(TM) Orion Inhaler, Sultanol(TM) Diskhaler(TM) Flutide(TM) Diskus(TM), Atrovent(TM) with Inhalator M(TM), Ventilat(TM) with Inhalator Ingelheim and Buventol(TM) and Beclomet(TM) Easyhaler(TM). As every dry powder inhaler has a specific air flow resistance that limits flow under in vivo conditions, inhaler devices should be tested at corresponding flow conditions in vitro. Though this is not yet reflected in the pharmacopeias, a general consensus can be seen in the scientific literature. Therefore DPIs having a high resistance were tested at 30 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end and those showing a low resistance at 90 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end with the Twin Impinger additionally. Most products were found to emit a fine particle dose of 20-30% of total emitted dose at 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. The results of the Twin Impinger and the Four Stage Impinger were in good agreement. Measurements at increasing flow rates generally resulted in increasing fine particle fractions.

pui:25237496
Title:Sample sizes for comparative inhaled corticosteroid trials with emphasis on showing therapeutic equivalence
Authors:P. ZanenJ.-W.J. Lammers
Absract:In the near future it is to be expected that many new inhaled corticosteroids or formulations of these drugs will be compared with older ones, to discover whether they are therapeutically equivalent or not. The statistical evaluation of these trials differs from the classic methods. When two averages are similar or differ only slightly power is very low. The regulatory, bodies demand a power of at least 80%. This problem was initially solved by using the so-called power approach. Researchers included enough volunteers to enable them to detect a predefined difference, considered to be without any clinical significance, with a power of 80%. This approach, however, has been shown to be incorrect and has been replaced by the two one-sided tests procedure, where a new sample size equation is derived. Important elements of this new equation are the coefficient of variation of the parameter measured, the difference between the averages of the two groups and the equivalence limit (the difference between the means still tolerable). This equation was used in the present study to estimate the number of volunteers needed in a parallel inhaled corticosteroids equivalence trial. The end points chosen were the changes in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and PC@sub_begin20@sub_end due to the corticosteroid effect. Calculations were performed by extracting data from published placebo-controlled trials, and defining a range of equivalence limits and differences between the group averages. It was shown that a huge number of volunteers (500-1000) will be needed, as a result of the small corticosteroid effect and the high variance. In the case of inhaled corticosteroids, the equivalence limit is not known and needs defining to avoid discussions on the outcome. Due to the high number of patients who need to be included, the trial will most probably be multicentre and take place in several countries. Such a trial will suffer from several sources of bias. For instance, the definition of asthma can differ from country to country and from researcher to researcher, resulting in non-comparable groups of patients. The many sources of bias will make the outcome difficult to interpret. Therefore alternative methods to establish therapeutic equivalence are proposed and discussed.

doi:10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2019.08.236
Title:Pharmacokinetic study and brain tissue analysis of Zolmitriptan loaded chitosan nanoparticles in rats by LC-MS method
Authors:F.A.N.Z. KhezriC.S.R. LakshmiR. BukkaM. NidhiS.L. Nargund
Absract:Introduction: Migraine has recently become a major interest to the neuroscientists. Zolmitriptan is an effective medicine used in the treatment of migraine. The nasal spray was prepared from Zolmitriptan loaded chitosan nanoparticles and evaluated for pharmacokinetic properties. Methods: In this study male Wistar albino rats weighing between 200 and 250 g were taken and divided into 4 groups with 6 rats in each group. Nasal spray containing Zolmitriptan loaded Chitosan nanoparticles were administered nasally (using specific inhalation mask) at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg as a test formulation and compared with the control groups which received either water for injection or marketed standard drug (Zolmist) or standard drug solution at a same dose. The pharmacokinetic parameters such as C@sub_beginmax@sub_end, T@sub_beginmax@sub_end, and brain tissue analyses for accumulation of drug were performed for Zolmitriptan by LC-MS method. Results: Amount of drug in the plasma from the test formulation, standard marketed drug (Zolmist) and standard drug solution was found to be 41.37 ± 2.31, 34.76 ± 4.22 and 23.74 ± 2.42 ng/ml at 10 min respectively, which indicated significantly (p < 0.05) greater amount of drug being delivered from the test formulation compared to the both standard groups. The amount of the drug (Zolmitriptan) present in brain tissue (Olfactory lobe) was found to be 15 ± 0.08, 13 ± 0.14 and 8 ± 0.13 ng/g at 60 min for test formulation, marketed standard and standard drug solution respectively which indicates significantly (p < 0.05) higher amount of drug absorption in brain tissue from the test formulation compared to both the standard groups. Conclusion: Pharmacokinetics studies of nasal spray containing Zolmitriptan loaded chitosan nanoparticles proved rapid onset of action in animals and is promising in treatment of migraine.

doi:10.1016/j.jsps.2015.03.010
Title:Formulation, preclinical and clinical evaluation of a new submicronic arginine respiratory fluid for treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder
Authors:V.P.S. RathorP. ChughR. AliA. BhatnagarS.E. HaqueA. BhatnagarG. Mittal
Absract:Inhalational drugs often suffer from low pulmonary deposition due to their micronized size. Aim of present study was development and evaluation of a novel submicronic L-arginine respiratory fluid formulation for treatment of cardiopulmonary complications associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD). Objectives were (a) to develop and characterize submicronic L-arginine respiratory fluid formulation, (b) pre-clinical safety/toxicity study in 2-animal species, (c) in vitro and in vivo evaluation in terms of respiratory fraction, and (d) clinical study to assess safety/efficacy in healthy volunteers/COPD patients. Formulation was optimized on the basis of particle size of aerosolized medication with particle size in the range of 400-500 nm. Anderson cascade impaction (ACI) studies were performed to validate the advantage in terms of respirable fraction, which indicated a high respirable fraction (51.61 ± 3.28) for the developed formulation. In vivo pulmonary deposition pattern of optimized formulation was studied using gamma scintigraphy in human volunteers using @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc-arginine as radiotracer. It clearly demonstrated a significant pulmonary deposition of the submicronic formulation in various lung compartments. Efficacy of the developed formulation was further assessed in COPD patients (n = 15) by evaluating its effect on various cardiopulmonary parameters (spirometry, pulse-oxymetry, echocardiography and 6-min walk test). A marked improvement was seen in patients after inhalation of submicronic arginine in terms of their cardiopulmonary status. Results suggest that submicronic arginine respiratory fluid has the potential to be developed into an attractive therapeutic option for treating COPD associated cardiopulmonary complications.

doi:10.1038/ja.2014.13
Title:Inhaled microparticles of antitubercular antibiotic for in vitro and in vivo alveolar macrophage targeting and activation of phagocytosis
Authors:R. ParikhS. DalwadiP. AbotiL. Patel
Absract:Tuberculosis (TB) is a chronic infectious disease with increasing incidence of drug resistance. Oral treatment for TB and multidrug resistance-TB can have serious side effects. The causative agent of TB, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, resides in alveolar macrophages (AMs). Pulmonary administration of antitubercular (anti-TB) antibiotic can help in delivery of high concentration to AM. The ability of AM to phagocytose can also be utilized to generate mycobactericidal nitric oxide (NO) to improve efficacy of anti-TB antibiotics. The objective in this investigation was made to prepare isoniazid microparticles (IM) and polymeric microparticles of isoniazid (INH-PM) using poly-ε-caprolactone as polymer and to evaluate in vitro through cell culture techniques and in vivo through pulmonary administration of IM and INH-PM for uptake of isoniazid by AM. The hepatotoxicity was determined through serum glutamate oxaloacetate transferase (SGOT) and serum glutamate pyruvate transferase (SGPT) levels and histological examination. The results depicted that the significantly higher (P<0.05) concentration of isoniazid was found in AM with INH-PM in vitro and in vivo. NO production was also significantly higher but less than toxic level. SGOT and SGPT levels, uptake of INH by liver and histological examination were indicative of no hepatotoxicity with INH-PM and IM. Phagocytosis of IM and INH-PM leads to significantly higher drug level in AM as well as production of significantly higher levels of NO without compromising the viability of cells. The administration of IM and INH-PM as dry powder inhalation formulation may reduce the treatment time of TB and chances of drug-resistant TB. © 2014 Japan Antibiotics Research Association.

doi:10.1016/S1081-1206(10)62816-5
Title:A 3-month comparison of formoterol with terbutaline via turbuhaler. A placebo-controlled study
Authors:T. EkströmN. RingdalP. TukiainenE. RunnerströmS. Soliman
Absract:Background and aim: Oxis Turbuhaler is a new dry powder formulation of long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist formoterol. This study compared the efficacy and safety of regular use of the long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist formoterol and the short-acting terbutaline for 3 months in patients with asthma. Method: After 1-week run-in, 343 patients received either formoterol 12 μg bid (F) (delivered dose of 9 μg), terbutaline 500 μg qid (T) or placebo qid, in a parallel-group, double-blind, randomized manner. They had a mean of 61% of predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) and a mean reversibility of 26%. Eighty-nine percent used inhaled corticosteroids. Results: During run-in mean morning peak expiratory flow (PEF L/min) for F was 366 and 348 for T, and 344 for placebo (P). The F group improved morning PEF significantly compared with P (P = .0022) and T (P = .0001). Changes from run-in were +18, -1.5, and +5 L/min after F, T, and P, respectively. The F group was statistically significantly better than P and T in increasing evening PEF and in reducing night-time asthma. The F and T statistically significantly reduced the use of rescue medication compared with P. The bronchodilating response to the study drug and to an additional 1.25 mg terbutaline was of the same magnitude before and throughout the study. No statistically significant treatment-by-time interaction was observed (P > .20). There were no adverse effects of clinical relevance. Conclusion: Formoterol Turbuhaler, 12 μg bid, was more effective than terbutaline Turbuhaler, 0.5 mg qid, and placebo. Regular use of formoterol or terbutaline did not significantly influence the response to additional inhalation of terbutaline.

doi:10.2165/00003495-199753020-00006
Title:Triamcinolone acetonide: A review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic efficacy in the management of allergic rhinitis
Authors:W. JealD. Faulds
Absract:Triamcinolone acetonide is a synthetic glucocorticoid which has been formulated as both an aerosol and an aqueous metered-dose pump spray for nasal inhalation in the treatment of allergic rhinitis. Nasally administered triamcinolone acetonide is not significantly absorbed into the systemic circulation and does not suppress hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function at therapeutic dosages. Clinical trials with either formulation have shown that once-daily triamcinolone acetonide 110 to 220 μg reduces symptoms of allergic rhinitis within the first day of administration. Once symptoms are under control, the dosage of aqueous triamcinolone acetonide may be reduced from 220 to 110 μg/day without loss of effect. Both aqueous and aerosol formulations of triamcinolone acetonide are significantly more effective in relieving symptoms and reducing nasal eosinophil influx than placebo. Once-daily intranasal triamcinolone acetonide 220 μg/day produced similar reductions from baseline in nasal symptoms of allergic rhinitis, when measured both subjectively (visual analogue scales) and objectively (anterior rhinomanometry), to those seen with beclomethasone 84 to 168 μg twice daily, fluticasone 200 μg once daily or flunisolide 100 μg twice daily for 3 to 12 weeks. Furthermore, triamcinolone acetonide aerosol 220 μg/day was significantly more effective at reducing the nasal symptoms of allergic rhinitis than the oral antihistamines loratadine and astemizole (both 10 μg daily) and was equally as effective in reducing the associated ocular symptoms. The use of intranasal triamcinolone acetonide and oral loratadine in combinations did not confer any additional advantage over triamcinolone acetonide alone. Triamcinolone acetonide [110 to either 220 μg/day (aqueous) or 440 μg/day (aerosol)] was well tolerated in clinical trials; headache and epistaxis were the only adverse events considered possibly or probably related to aerosol therapy in a 1-year study (110 to 440 μg/day). Therefore, in accordance with the recommendations from the International Rhinitis Management Working Group regarding the use of nasal glucocorticoids, triamcinolone acetonide may be considered a first-line therapy option in adults with moderately severe seasonal allergic rhinitis with predominantly nasal symptoms and also in children and adult patients with perennial allergic rhinitis.

pui:22352181
Title:Pulmonary delivery of amikacin liposomes and acute liposome toxicity in the sheep
Authors:H. SchreierK.J. McNicolM. AusbornD.M. SoucyH. DerendorfA.A. StecenkoR.J. Gonzalez-Rothi
Absract:Although liposome-encapsulated antibiotics designed for intrapulmonary delivery by instillation or aerosolization have been proposed, little is known about the pharmacokinetic profile and toxicity of liposomal drug formulations when delivered to the lung. A technique for large-scale preparation of sterile amikacin liposomes including preparation of a lyophilized amikacin/phospholipid coprecipitate and a highly efficient hollow-fiber dialysis method for rapid removal of unencapsulated drug is described. Doses of 5 and 15 mg/kg amikacin solution or 15 and 45 mg/kg amikacin-containing liposomes consisting of soy phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylglycerol (SPC/PG 7:3, molar ratio) or SPC/PG with cholesterol (SPC/PG/CH 4:3:3) were administered intratracheally into intubated, awake sheep. For the 15 mg/kg amikacin solution, the terminal half-life time (t( 1/2 )) was 117 min with maximum plasma levels (c(pmax)) of 8.3 μg/ml after 2 h and a bioavailability of 38%. The t( 1/2 ) for both doses of amikacin-SPC/PG liposomes was greater than 3 h. Bioavailability varied from 35 to 58%, with a c(pmax) of 5.5 μg/ml (15 mg/kg) and 23.6 μg/ml (45 mg/kg) after 1.5 h. The t( 1/2 ) of amikacin-SPC/PG/CH liposomes was greater than 10 h with a c(pmax) of 3.3 μg/ml after 3 h and a bioavailability of 46%. The dosage form was found to be the overall rate-limiting factor for amikacin pharmacokinetics. For assessment of pulmonary function and blood gases, awake sheep inhaled plain liposomes consisting of 15 and 150 mg/ml SPC or hydrogenated SPC (HSPC) for 30 min via a Collison nebulizer. Dynamic compliance (C(dyn)), lung resistance (R(L)), p(a)O@sub_begin2@sub_end and p(a)CO@sub_begin2@sub_end were analyzed for 6 h post-inhalation (acute effects 0-2 h; delayed effects 2-6 h). All parameters remained within physiologically normal ranges over the entire observation period. It was concluded that liposomes delivered by the pulmonary route act as local sustained release reservoir, and are safe and nonirritating to the lung.

doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.05.005
Title:Effects of the pharmaceutical technologic aspects of oral pediatric drugs on patient-related outcomes: A systematic literature review
Authors:D.A. van Riet-NalesA.F.A.M. SchobbenT.C.G. EgbertsC.M.A. Rademaker
Absract:Background: In view of the high rates of off-label and unlicensed prescribing of drugs in children, the US Food and Drug Administration and the European Union have implemented legislative regulations for the pharmaceutical industry to increase the number of drugs with approved pediatric labeling. However, the extent to which the effects of pharmaceutical technologic aspects of pediatric oral drugs (eg, taste, route and frequency of administration, user instructions) on patient-related outcomes (eg, efficacy, tolerability, preference, adherence) can be based on clinical evidence from the available literature is unknown.Objective: This systematic literature review aimed to identify the nature, volume, and quality of comparative studies that have assessed the effects of pharmaceutical technologic aspects of oral pediatric drugs on patient-related outcomes.Methods: The Cochrane, EMBASE, and MEDLINE databases were searched from their start through December 31, 2009. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they were published in English; included search terms for child, study design, medicine, formulation aspects, dosage form, routes of administration, patient acceptance, adherence, side effects and tolerability, and/or efficacy; reported on ≥10 children aged 0 to <18 years; and described the effects of ≥1 of 3 pharmaceutical technologic aspects of an oral pediatric drug (formulation and dosage form; route and frequency of administration; and/or packaging, administration device, and user instruction) on ≥1 of 6 patient-related outcomes (clinical efficacy, side effects and tolerability, patient preference, patient acceptance, administration errors, and/or adherence). Studies were excluded if they concerned a nonallopathic drug (ie, homeopathic remedy, anthroposophic drug, herbal supplement, or food supplement); related to asthma (because modern asthma treatment protocols strongly favor the use of drug inhalation above oral medication); and/or related to analgesics. The characteristics of each of the included publications were assessed with respect to pharmaceutical technologic aspect studied; patient-related outcomes studied; pharmacotherapeutic indication; year of publication; geographic location; number and age of the included subjects; and sponsorship by industry and/or author affiliation with the pharmaceutical industry. The electronic search was supplemented with a manual search of the cited references.Results: Ninety-four publications were identified as eligible for inclusion. These publications reported on 176 assessments of the effects of ≥1 pharmaceutical technologic aspect on ≥1 patient-related outcome. Fiftyfive percent of the studies were conducted in children aged 2 or 3 years, and 69% in children aged 4 or 5 years. Forty-three percent of the publications included ≥100 patients. Fifty-one percent of the studies were conducted in the United States or Canada, and 29% in Europe. Antibacterials for systemic use were the subject of 30% of the included publications. Two of the 94 publications were of appropriate méthodologie quality (Jadad score ≥4). Forty-nine percent of the studies were sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry or were written by ≥1 author affiliated with the industry. Sixty-eight percent of the included studies had Jadad scores of 0 or 1 (poor quality). The proportion of industry-sponsored or industryauthored studies with a Jadad score ≥2 or in ≥100 children was not significantly different from that of non-industry-sponsored or-authored studies. The proportion of industry-sponsored or industry-authored studies conducted in the United States/Canada (48 [51%]) was not significantly different from that of studies conducted elsewhere (46 [49%]). The distribution of technologic aspects assessed in the included studies were formulation and dosage form, 48%; route and frequency of administration, 44%; and packaging, administration device, and user instruction, 8%. Seventy-six assessments included ≥100 patients. Twenty-one of these assessments addressed patient acceptance or patient preference; 17, clinical efficacy; and 14, side effects and tolerability.Conclusions: This systematic review identified 94 articles on oral drugs for use in children and adolescents, which reported on a total 176 assessments of the effects of 3 pharmaceutical technologic aspects (formulation and dosage form; route and frequency of administration; and packaging, administration device, and user instruction) on 6 patient-related outcomes (clinical efficacy, side effects and tolerability, patient preference, patient acceptance, administration errors, and adherence). Only 2 of the 94 publications were of appropriate methodologic quality. These results suggest that published clinical evidence to support pharmaceutical development programs is limited. © 2010 Excerpta Medica Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2013.09.001
Title:Evaluation of sildenafil pressurized metered dose inhalers as a vasodilator in umbilical blood vessels of chicken egg embryos
Authors:S. SawatdeeP. HiranphanK. LaphanayosT. Srichana
Absract:Sildenafil citrate is a selective phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor used for the treatment for erectile dysfunction and pulmonary hypertension. The delivery of sildenafil directly to the lung could have several advantages over conventional treatments for pulmonary hypertension because of the local delivery, a more rapid onset of response, and reduced side effects. The major problem of sildenafil citrate is its limited solubility in water. Sildenafil citrate was complexed with cyclodextrins (CDs) to enhance its water solubility prior to development as an inhaled preparation. Four sildenafil citrate inhaled formulations were prepared with the aid of HP-β-CD (#1), α-CD (#2) and γ-CD (#3) and their effects were compared with the formulations without CDs (#4). The sildenafil citrate pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDI) used ethanol as a solvent, PEG400 as a stabilizing agent, sorbitan monooleate as a surfactant and HFA-134a as a propellant. All formulations consisted of sildenafil citrate equivalent to a sildenafil content of 20 μg/puff. These products were evaluated according to a standard guideline of inhalation products. Vasodilation testing was performed to investigate the efficacy of sildenafil pMDIs in relieving a vasoconstricted umbilical blood vessel of the chicken egg embryo. The sildenafil contents of the pMDI formulations #1-#3 were within the acceptance criteria (80-120%). The emitted doses (ED) were 102.3 ± 11.5%, the fine particle fractions (FPF) were 60.5 ± 5.6% and the mass median aerodynamic diameters (MMAD) were 2.3 ± 0.3 μm. The vasodilatory activity of those formulations reduced umbilical blood pressure by 67.1-73.7% after treatment by intravenous injection whereas only a 50.1-58.0% reduced blood pressure was obtained after direct spraying of the sildenafil pMDI containing CDs. With sildenafil formulations of a pMDI without CD the blood pressure was reduced by only 39.0% (P-value < 0.05). The available sildenafil in the blood vessels of chicken egg embryos after spraying sildenafil-CDs pMDIs was within the range of 751-825 ng/mL which was much higher than that of a sildenafil only pMDI.© 2014 Published by Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1002/ddr.20243
Title:Intranasal insulin: PK profile designed specifically for prandial treatment of type 2 diabetes
Authors:R.L. MitchellH.R. CostantinoA. SilenoT. DuffyG. BrandtS.C. Quay
Absract:Insulin is the most effective therapy for lowering glycosylated hemoglobin (A1c) levels in Type 2 diabetics, and yet it is typically the last therapeutic option employed. Currently, the vast majority of marketed prandial insulin products require frequent injections, which may be a barrier among patients and physicians to initiating this medically important therapy. Beyond the inconvenience, concerns about potential weight gain and hypoglycemia may also limit the early use of insulin therapy. None of the approved insulin formulations (including rapid-acting products) provide a PK response fast enough to mimic the endogenous first-phase insulin release that is seen following bolus intravenous glucose infusion and that is associated with downregulation of gluconeogenesis. Delayed absorption of insulin from subcutaneous injection results in a relatively broad plasma insulin peak and a prolonged duration of action, potentially increasing the risk of hypoglycemia. We are developing an intranasal insulin formulation that provides a well-tolerated and efficient means of delivering prandial insulin more rapidly than fast-acting injectable insulin. With its fast onset and short duration of action, Nastech's intranasal insulin exhibits pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties that take advantage of the known benefits of delivering a rapid and transient burst of insulin at mealtime. This review discusses the current development of intranasal formulations and compares the characteristics of intranasal insulin to other non-invasive insulin delivery efforts, including pulmonary, oral, and transdermal formulations. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

doi:10.1002/jps.20848
Title:Peptide drug delivery strategies for the treatment of diabetes
Authors:N. SadrzadehM.J. GlembourttC.L. Stevenson
Absract:Drug delivery strategies for diabetes have included a wide range of scientific and engineering approaches, including molecular design, formulation and device design. Molecular engineering has resulted in modified pharmacokinetics, such as rapid-acting or slow-release analogs of insulin. Long-acting insulin formulations are designed to meet the body's basal needs, whereas rapid-acting insulin formulations are designed to cover mealtime glucose spikes. Furthermore, the discovery of new therapeutic biomolecules, which like insulin need to be injected, will drive the need for more flexible and universally applicable delivery systems. Formulation design, such as particle engineering, can be used to modify pharmacokinetic profiles. In general, suspension formulations of insulin commonly demonstrate reduced solubility and result in sustained release. Similarly, depot injections can result in precipitation of insulin at the site of injection, again resulting in lower solubility and sustained release. Particle engineering also has been applied to pulmonary formulations for delivery to the deep lung. The creation of novel drug delivery methods for the treatment of diabetes should remove barriers to insulin therapy and increase patient acceptance and compliance. Eliminating routine injections with needle-free injectors, insulin pumps, inhalation, buccal sprays, intra-nasal delivery, and transdermal patches may offer increasingly attractive alternatives. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc. and the American Pharmacists Association.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2020.11.019
Title:Synergistic activity of phage PEV20-ciprofloxacin combination powder formulation—A proof-of-principle study in a P. aeruginosa lung infection model
Authors:Y. LinD. QuanR.Y.K. ChangM.Y.T. ChowY. WangM. LiS. MoralesW.J. BrittonE. KutterJ. LiH.-K. Chan
Absract:Combination treatment using bacteriophage and antibiotics is potentially an advanced approach to combatting antimicrobial-resistant bacterial infections. We have recently developed an inhalable powder by co-spray drying Pseudomonas phage PEV20 with ciprofloxacin. The purpose of this study was to assess the in vivo effect of the powder using a neutropenic mouse model of acute lung infection. The synergistic activity of PEV20 and ciprofloxacin was investigated by infecting mice with P. aeruginosa, then administering freshly spray-dried single PEV20 (10@sup_begin6@sup_end PFU/mg), single ciprofloxacin (0.33 mg/mg) or combined PEV20-ciprofloxacin treatment using a dry powder insufflator. Lung tissues were then harvested for colony counting and flow cytometry analysis at 24 h post-treatment. PEV20 and ciprofloxacin combination powder significantly reduced the bacterial load of clinical P. aeruginosa strain in mouse lungs by 5.9 log@sub_begin10@sub_end (p < 0.005). No obvious reduction in the bacterial load was observed when the animals were treated only with PEV20 or ciprofloxacin. Assessment of immunological responses in the lungs showed reduced inflammation associating with the bactericidal effect of the PEV20-ciprofloxacin powder. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated the synergistic potential of using the combination PEV20-ciprofloxacin powder for P. aeruginosa respiratory infections.

doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.06.025
Title:Inhaled insulin: A breath of fresh air? a review of inhaled insulin
Authors:T. Santos CavaiolaS. Edelman
Absract:Purpose Despite many advances in diabetes care over the last century, some elements of insulin therapy remain inadequate for optimal care of the patient with diabetes. There is a need for improved pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of rapid-acting insulin analogues to mimic physiologic insulin secretion. In addition, a major barrier to successful insulin therapy has been patient resistance. Alternative routes of insulin administration, including inhaled insulin, have been under investigation for several years. This review discusses the rationale for pulmonary delivery of insulin, compares previous inhaled insulin products, reviews the literature on the safety and efficacy of a current inhaled insulin formulation under investigation, and compares this product with other prandial insulin products. Methods English-language studies and reviews of inhaled insulin were searched in MEDLINE, the ClinicalTrials.gov registry (through May 2014), and the US Food and Drug Administration Website. Findings Inhaled insulin has several favorable characteristics due to pulmonary anatomy/physiology and the lack of injections. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies have shown a time-action profile suitable for prandial insulin use. Inhaled insulin seems to be safe and effective compared with other prandial insulin products and may be preferable to subcutaneous rapid-acting insulin analogues in terms of time-action profiles and rates of hypoglycemia. Small decreases in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) have been shown with inhaled insulin, although this finding is not progressive over time and reverses with cessation of the medication. Implications Although several inhaled insulin products have been under investigation, only one (Exubera® [Nektar Therapeutics, San Carlos, California/Pfizer Inc, New York, New York]) was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration, and it was pulled from the market after only a short period of time. Technosphere® insulin (MannKind Corporation, Valencia, California) is currently the only inhaled insulin that remains under investigation. A review of the past and present literature on inhaled insulin is pertinent in understanding the current status of inhaled insulin and its risks and benefits. The current literature suggests that inhaled insulin could be a valuable option for prandial insulin administration, with a favorable risk to benefit ratio in some patients. © 2014 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc.

doi:10.1007/s11095-009-9957-4
Title:Inhaled drug delivery for tuberculosis therapy
Authors:P. MuttilC. WangA.J. Hickey
Absract:One third of the world population is infected with tuberculosis (TB), and new infections occur at a rate of one per second. The recent increase in the emergence of drug-resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and the dearth of anti-TB drugs is threatening the future containment of TB. New drugs or delivery systems that will stop the spread of TB and slow down or prevent the development of drug-resistant strains are urgently required. One of the reasons for the emergence of drug-resistant strains is the exposure of mycobacteria to sub-therapeutic levels of one or more antibiotics. Lung lesions containing large numbers of bacteria are poorly vascularized and are fortified with thick fibrous tissue; conventional therapy by the oral and parenteral routes may provide sub-therapeutic levels of anti-TB drugs to these highly sequestered organisms. Administering drugs by the pulmonary route to the lungs allows higher drug concentrations in the vicinity of these lesions. Supplementing conventional therapy with inhaled anti-TB therapy may allow therapeutic concentrations of drug to penetrate effectively into lung lesions and treat the resident mycobacteria. © 2009 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1093/bja/aem298
Title:Epidural anaesthetic effect of the 8% emulsified isoflurane: A study in rabbits
Authors:Y.-F. ChaiJ. YangJ. LiuH.-B. SongJ.-W. YangS.-L. LiuW.-S. ZhangQ.-W. Wang
Absract:Background. Studies have shown that local use of volatile anaesthetics produce local anaesthetic effects such as local infiltration anaesthesia (in rats and humans) and spinal anaesthesia (in dogs). However, there is still no report on the epidural anaesthetic effect of volatile anaesthetics. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the epidural anaesthetic effect of the 8% emulsified isoflurane in rabbits. Methods. Forty rabbits chronically instrumented with an epidural catheter were randomly divided into four groups of 10 rabbits each. According to group assignment, rabbits received epidural administration of 8% emulsified isoflurane (v/v) 1 ml in the E-isoflurane group, 1% lidocaine 1 ml in the Lidocaine group, 30% lipid emulsion 1 ml in the Itralipid group, or normal saline 1 ml in the NS group. The sensory and motor functions and the state of consciousness were assessed at baseline and at predetermined regular intervals. Then, the rabbits were continuously observed for 2 weeks to examine the possible long-term neurological complications. Results. The sensory blockade onset time, motor blockade onset time, and motor blockade duration in the E-isoflurane group [1.4 (0.7), 1.6 (0.7), and 34 (10) min, respectively] were similar to those in the Lidocaine group [1.3 (0.5), 1.7 (0.8), and 38 (8), min, respectively]. The sensory blockade duration in the E-isoflurane group was longer than that in the Lidocaine group [68 (13) vs 49 (13) min, P<0.01]. No epidural anaesthetic effects occurred in the NS group and the Intralipid group. None of the rabbits showed an abnormal consciousness after the epidural drug administration. None of the rabbits showed any long-term neurological deficits during a 2 week observation. Conclusions. The present study demonstrates that epidural administration of the 8% emulsified isoflurane produces completely a reversible epidural anaesthetic effect that does not affect the level of consciousness in rabbits. © The Board of Management and Trustees of the British Journal of Anaesthesia 2007. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2006.07.021
Title:Development of a laser diffraction method for the determination of the particle size of aerosolised powder formulations
Authors:C. MarriottH.B. MacRitchieX.-M. ZengG.P. Martin
Absract:Impactor data are an essential component of marketing authorisation for new dry powder aerosol formulations. However such data are time-consuming to obtain and therefore impede the rapid screening of pilot formulations. In this phase of development it would be of considerable benefit to employ a technique where data acquisition was more rapid, such as laser diffraction, to predict the fine particle fraction. It was the aim of this study to investigate whether this is a feasible premise. Five different formulations were prepared, each containing 1.5% (w/w) micronised salbutamol base (volume median diameter: 2.42 μm) blended with the sieved fraction (63-90 μm) of one of the following sugars: regular crystalline lactose, spray dried lactose "Zeparox™", sorbitol, maltose and dextrose monohydrate. A Perspex™ box was constructed to contain particles released from a glass inhaler and allow the particles to be measured by laser diffraction at different flow rates. After being validated using monodisperse aerosols, this assembly was then employed to measure the particle size distributions of each powder formulation and its respective sugar carrier at flow rates ranging from 28.3 to 100 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end. Aerodynamic particle size distribution of salbutamol base from each formulation was also measured after aerosolisation at 28.3 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end from the glass inhaler into an Andersen cascade impactor. The flight of monodisperse particles with diameters (2-6 μm) in the desired size range of dry powders for inhalation could be contained and the size distribution determined by laser diffraction using the assembly at all flow rates investigated. Treatment of the particle size distributions measured by laser diffraction, i.e. examining only the aerosol particles with diameter <60 μm, highlighted the fine fraction (<5 μm) and enabled the aerosolisation of different blends to be feasibly compared at a range of different flow rates. The blends containing the following excipients could be placed in the following order of increasing fine fraction: spray-dried lactose < dextrose ≪ maltose < lactose < sorbitol. At 28.3 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end a significant linear correlation was found between the fine fractions measured by laser diffraction and the salbutamol fine fractions determined by inertial impaction (R@sup_begin2@sup_end = 87.4%, p = 0.02, ANOVA). Therefore, the laser diffraction technique could prove to be an important tool for particle size characterisation of dry powder aerosol formulations. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S0378-5173(99)00400-7
Title:The influence of lactose carrier on the content homogeneity and dispersibility of beclomethasone dipropionate from dry powder aerosols
Authors:X.M. ZengK.H. PandhalG.P. Martin
Absract:Dry powder formulations for inhalation usually comprise a mixture of coarse lactose (CL), employed as a carrier, and micronized drug. It was the aim of this study to determine the effects of fine lactose (FL), blended as a tertiary component on the mixing homogeneity and dispersibility of a model hydrophobic drug, beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP). BDP particles (volume median diameter (VMD) 4.6 μm) existed mainly as agglomerates, the majority of which were not dispersed into primary particles after aerosolization at a high shear force (4.7 psi). The resultant particle size distribution of BDP was multi-modal with VMD varying between 4.7 and 30.2 μm. Ternary interactive mixtures were prepared to consist of CL, FL and BDP with a fixed ratio of lactose to BDP of 67.5:1 w/w, but two concentrations of FL, i.e. 2.5 and 5%, w/w. The mixing was carried out using different sequences of adding the three components for two mixing times (15 and 60 min). Binary mixtures composed of CL and BDP were prepared for both mixing times as the controls, and these exhibited a coefficient of variation (COV) in BDP content ≤ 5%. Addition of FL to the binary formulations greatly reduced the content uniformity of BDP if the final powder were prepared by first mixing CL with FL before mixing with the drug (COV > 20%, after mixing for 15 min). However, the mixtures, prepared using other mixing sequences, had a similar uniformity of BDP content to the binary mixtures. All ternary mixtures containing 2.5% FL consistently produced a significantly higher (ANOVA P < 0.01) fine particle fraction (FPF, 3.1-6.1%) and fine particle dose (FPD, 13.6-30.1 μg) of BDP than the binary mixtures (FPF, 0.3-0.4%; FPD, 1.6-2.1 μg) after aerosolization at 60 l min@sup_begin-1@sup_end via a Rotahaler into a twin stage liquid impinger. The mixing sequences exerted a significant (P < 0.05) effect on the dispersion and deaggregation of BDP from the formulations prepared using a mixing time of 15 min but such an effect disappeared when the mixing time was lengthened to 60 min. The dispersibility of BDP was always higher from the ternary mixtures than from the binary mixtures. BDP delivery from dry powder inhalers was improved markedly by adding FL to the formulation, without substantial reduction in the content uniformity of the drug. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.04.030
Title:Preparation of drug-loaded small unilamellar liposomes and evaluation of their potential for the treatment of chronic respiratory diseases
Authors:V. De LeoS. RuscignoA. TrapaniS. Di GioiaF. MilanoD. MandracchiaR. ComparelliS. CastellaniA. AgostianoG. TrapaniL. CatucciM. Conese
Absract:The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the influence of liposome formulation on the ability of vesicles to penetrate a pathological mucus model obtained from COPD affected patients in order to assess the potential of such vesicles for the treatment of chronic respiratory diseases by inhalation. Therefore, Small Unilamellar Liposomes (PLAIN-LIPOSOMEs), Pluronic® F127-surface modified liposomes (PF-LIPOSOMEs) and PEG 2000PE-surface modified liposomes (PEG-LIPOSOMEs) were prepared using the micelle-to-vesicle transition (MVT) method and beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) as model drug. The obtained liposomes showed diameters in the range of 40–65 nm, PDI values between 0.25 and 0.30 and surface electric charge essentially close to zero. The encapsulation efficiency was found to be dependent on the BDP/lipid ratio used and, furthermore, BDP-loaded liposomes were stable in size both at 37 °C and at 4 °C. All liposomes were not cytotoxic on H441 cell line as assessed by the MTT assay. The liposome uptake was evaluated through a cytofluorimetric assay that showed a non-significant reduction in the internalization of PEG-LIPOSOMEs as compared with PLAIN-LIPOSOMEs. The penetration studies of mucus from COPD patients showed that the PEG-LIPOSOMEs were the most mucus-penetrating vesicles after 27 h. In addition, PEG- and PF-LIPOSOMEs did not cause any effect on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteins after aerosol administration in the mouse. The results highlight that PEG-LIPOSOMEs show the most interesting features in terms of penetration through the pathologic sputum, uptake by airway epithelial cells and safety profile.

doi:10.2147/DDDT.S120356
Title:Preparation and physicochemical characterization of spray-dried and jet-milled microparticles containing bosentan hydrate for dry powder inhalation aerosols
Authors:H.-J. LeeJ.-H. KangH.-G. LeeD.-W. KimY.-S. RheeJ.-Y. KimE.-S. ParkC.-W. Park
Absract:The objectives of this study were to prepare bosentan hydrate (BST) microparticles as dry powder inhalations (DPIs) via spray drying and jet milling under various parameters, to comprehensively characterize the physicochemical properties of the BST hydrate microparticles, and to evaluate the aerosol dispersion performance and dissolution behavior as DPIs. The BST microparticles were successfully prepared for DPIs by spray drying from feeding solution concentrations of 1%, 3%, and 5% (w/v) and by jet milling at grinding pressures of 2, 3, and 4 MPa. The physicochemical properties of the spray-dried (SD) and jet-milled (JM) microparticles were determined via scanning electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy, dynamic light scattering particle size analysis, Karl Fischer titration, surface analysis, pycnometry, differential scanning calorimetry, powder X-ray diffraction, and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The in vitro aerosol dispersion performance and drug dissolution behavior were evaluated using an Anderson cascade impactor and a Franz diffusion cell, respectively. The JM microparticles exhibited an irregular corrugated surface and a crystalline solid state, while the SD microparticles were spherical with a smooth surface and an amorphous solid state. Thus, the in vitro aerosol dispersion performance and dissolution behavior as DPIs were considerably different due to the differences in the physicochemical properties of the SD and JM microparticles. In particular, the highest grinding pressures under jet milling exhibited excellent aerosol dispersion performance with statistically higher values of 56.8%±2.0% of respirable fraction and 33.8%±2.3% of fine particle fraction and lower mass median aerodynamic diameter of 5.0±0.3 µm than the others (P<0.05, analysis of variance/Tukey). The drug dissolution mechanism was also affected by the physicochemical properties that determine the dissolution kinetics of the SD and JM microparticles, which were well fitted into the Higuchi and zero-order models, respectively.

doi:10.2174/138920008786049230
Title:Biopharmaceutics and therapeutic potential of engineered nanomaterials
Authors:X.-J. LiangC. ChenY. ZhaoL. JiaP.C. Wang
Absract:Engineered nanomaterials are at the leading edge of the rapidly developing nanosciences and are founding an important class of new materials with specific physicochemical properties different from bulk materials with the same compositions. The potential for nanomaterials is rapidly expanding with novel applications constantly being explored in different areas. The unique size-dependent properties of nanomaterials make them very attractive for pharmaceutical applications. Investigations of physical, chemical and biological properties of engineered nanomaterials have yielded valuable information. Cytotoxic effects of certain engineered nanomaterials towards malignant cells form the basis for one aspect of nanomedicine. It is inferred that size, three dimensional shape, hydrophobicity and electronic configurations make them an appealing subject in medicinal chemistry. Their unique structure coupled with immense scope for derivatization forms a base for exciting developments in therapeutics. This review article addresses the fate of absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) of engineered nanoparticles in vitro and in vivo. It updates the distinctive methodology used for studying the biopharmaceutics of nanoparticles. This review addresses the future potential and safety concerns and genotoxicity of nanoparticle formulations in general. It particularly emphasizes the effects of nanoparticles on metabolic enzymes as well as the parenteral or inhalation administration routes of nanoparticle formulations. This paper illustrates the potential of nanomedicine by discussing biopharmaceutics of fullerene derivatives and their suitability for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Future direction is discussed as well. © 2008 Bentham Science Publishers Ltd.

doi:10.1002/bdr2.v111.9
Title:Trichloroethylene (TCE) in drinking water does not cause heart defects in rats
Authors:J.M. DesessoP.S. CoderR.G. YorkR.A. BudinskyL.H. PottengerS. SenJ.M. LucarellC.J. BevanJ.S. Bus
Absract:Trichloroethylene (TCE) is a chlorinated hydrocarbon that has been used for >150 years. Its extensive past uses and environmental persistence in soil and groundwater make TCE a commonly detected environmental pollutant, albeit at low concentrations. TCE has been thoroughly investigated for its potential to cause adverse health effects over the past four decades. TCE was negative for developmental toxicity after exposure of pregnant rats by inhalation and oral gavage in GLP studies conducted according to international guidance. However, studies from a single laboratory reported increased congenital heart defects after exposing mated rats from gestational day (GD) 1-21 to 0.25-1,100 ppm TCE in drinking water. Because of deficiencies in this latter study, we performed a GLP drinking water study following international guidance to test whether TCE causes heart defects. Groups of 25 mated Sprague Dawley rats consumed water containing 0, 0.25, 1.5, 500, or 1,000 ppm TCE from GD 1-21. TCE concentrations were measured at formulation, when placed into water bottles each day, and when water bottles were removed from cages. Four additional mated rats per group were used to measure plasma levels of TCE and its primary oxidative metabolite, trichloroacetic acid (TCA). At study termination, fetal hearts, as well as great and major vessels, were carefully dissected fresh and examined. TCE concentrations were >90% of target when initially placed in water bottles and at placement on cages. All dams survived with no clinical signs. Rats in the two higher dose groups consumed less water/day than other groups but showed no changes in maternal or fetal body weights. The only fetal cardiac observation was small (≤1mm) membranous ventricular septal defects that occurred in all treated and water control groups (respective % per litter: 2.4, 1.4, 1.5, 3.8, 3.7). The incidence was within the range of published findings for naive animals. TCE was not detected in maternal blood, but systemic exposure was confirmed by detection of TCA at levels above the quantitation limit in the two higher dose groups. We conclude that TCE in drinking water up to 1,000 ppm throughout gestation does not cause cardiac defects in rat offspring.

doi:10.1097/ACO.0000000000000321
Title:A forecast of relevant pediatric sedation trends
Authors:M. MahmoudK.P. Mason
Absract:Purpose of review Over the past decade, the field of pediatric sedation has benefited from contributions which include the introduction and update of policies, procedures, and guidelines regarding training, physiologic monitoring and delivery, the approval of new sedatives, the multispecialty collaborations intended to advance the field and the development of sedatives, and delivery systems. This review will explore new drug innovations as well as evolved formulations of already approved agents, unique sedative delivery systems, the clinical application of pharmacogenetics and will conclude with a reflection on the current and future trends and focus of pediatric sedation research. Recent findings In recent years, the number of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures performed on children in nonoperating room anesthetizing locations has exploded at a rate which has in many instances, outpaced the availability of anesthesiologists. Over the past decade, the search for safe and effective sedatives and delivery systems has been embraced by all sedation providers. Dexmedetomidine and fospropofol were recently introduced, along with a computer-Assisted personalized sedation delivery system which empowers the patient to assist in his own sedation. The evolution of target-controlled infusion systems with both open and closed-loop design are intended to more precisely deliver sedation using pharmacokinetic models specific for each sedative. New formulations of propofol, ketamine, etomidate, and benzodiazepines are in development, all striving to improve predictability, safety, and recovery profile. Pharmacogenetics is being explored for its role in the effects of analgesics, sedatives, and local anesthetics. Summary As the demand for procedural sedation continues to expand, the sedation providers must continue to be creative in their search for novel, safe, effective, and efficient methods to deliver care. Approaching the field of sedation as a science is essential for the clinicians and researchers who strive to tailor the sedation to the patient and the procedure.

doi:10.1211/jpp.58.3.0006
Title:Anti-cancer effect of celecoxib and aerosolized docetaxel against human non-small cell lung cancer cell line, A549
Authors:S.V. FulzeleM.S. ShaikA. ChatterjeeM. Singh
Absract:Direct delivery of chemotherapeutic agents to the lung can increase both the drug concentration and exposure period to lung tumours. The objective of this study was to formulate docetaxel (DOC) into a metered dose inhaler (MDI), assess its aerodynamic characteristics and to evaluate the effect of celecoxib (CXB), a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, on the in-vitro cytotoxicity and apoptotic response of aerosolized DOC against human lung adenocarcinoma cell line A549. A stable solution-type MDI formulation was developed with 0.25% DOC and 15% w/w ethyl alcohol using HFA 134a propellant. The formulation was evaluated for medication delivery, mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD), geometric standard deviation (GSD), percent throat deposition, respirable mass and respirable fraction. A six-stage viable impactor was used to assess the in-vitro cytotoxicity of DOC-MDI alone or in combination with CXB. Induction of apoptosis in A549 cells by DOC (non-aerosolized and aerosolized) in combination with CXB was evaluated by established techniques, such as caspase-3 estimation and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labelling (TUNEL) staining. The influence of different treatments on the expression of COX-2 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) in A549 cells was studied by RT-PCR. The DOC-MDI formulation had a MMAD of 1.58 μm, (GSD = 3.2) and a medication delivery of 80 μg/shot. DOC-MDI (one shot) in combination with CXB (10 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) had a cell kill of more than 80% as determined by in-vitro cytotoxicity assay. The specific caspase-3 activity in A549 cells treated with DOC (0.01 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and CXB (10.0 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) combination was 4 times higher than CXB and untreated control group, respectively. Further, TUNEL staining showed significant apoptosis of A549 cells treated with aerosolized DOC alone or in combination with CXB when compared with CXB and untreated cells. The RT-PCR experiments showed similar expression of COX-2 in both control and treated groups. PPAR-γ expression was increased in the combination treatment (0.01 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end DOC and 10 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end CXB) as compared with control (untreated), DOC (0.01 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) and CXB (10 μg mL@sup_begin-1@sup_end) treatments. Our results indicate the potential of inhalation delivery of DOC in the treatment of lung cancer. © 2006 The Authors.

doi:10.1111/j.1365-2044.2004.03658.x
Title:Dantrolene - A review of its pharmacology, therapeutic use and new developments
Authors:T. KrauseM.U. GerbershagenM. FiegeR. WeißhornF. Wappler
Absract:Human malignant hyperthermia is a life-threatening genetic sensitivity of skeletal muscles to volatile anaesthetics and depolarizing neuromuscular blocking drugs occurring during or after anaesthesia. The skeletal muscle relaxant dantrolene is the only currently available drug for specific and effective therapy of this syndrome in man. After its introduction, the mortality of malignant hyperthermia decreased from 80% in the 1960s to < 10% today. It was soon discovered that dantrolene depresses the intrinsic mechanisms of excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle. However, its precise mechanism of action and its molecular targets are still incompletely known. Recent studies have identified the ryanodine receptor as a dantrolene-binding site. A direct or indirect inhibition of the ryanodine receptor, the major calcium release channel of the skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum, is thought to be fundamental in the molecular action of dantrolene in decreasing intracellular calcium concentration. Dantrolene is not only used for the treatment of malignant hyperthermia, but also in the management of neuroleptic malignant syndrome, spasticity and Ecstasy intoxication. The main disadvantage of dantrolene is its poor water solubility, and hence difficulties are experienced in rapidly preparing intravenous solutions in emergency situations. Due to economic considerations, no other similar drugs have been introduced into routine clinical practice. © 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

doi:10.1007/s11095-016-1892-6
Title:Production of Inhalation Phage Powders Using Spray Freeze Drying and Spray Drying Techniques for Treatment of Respiratory Infections
Authors:S.S.Y. LeungT. ParumasivamF.G. GaoN.B. CarrigyR. VehringW.H. FinlayS. MoralesW.J. BrittonE. KutterH.-K. Chan
Absract:Purpose: The potential of aerosol phage therapy for treating lung infections has been demonstrated in animal models and clinical studies. This work compared the performance of two dry powder formation techniques, spray freeze drying (SFD) and spray drying (SD), in producing inhalable phage powders. Method: A Pseudomonas podoviridae phage, PEV2, was incorporated into multi-component formulation systems consisting of trehalose, mannitol and L-leucine (F1 = 60:20:20 and F2 = 40:40:20). The phage titer loss after the SFD and SD processes and in vitro aerosol performance of the produced powders were assessed. Results: A significant titer loss (~2 log) was noted for droplet generation using an ultrasonic nozzle employed in the SFD method, but the conventional two-fluid nozzle used in the SD method was less destructive for the phage (~0.75 log loss). The phage were more vulnerable during the evaporative drying process (~0.75 log further loss) compared with the freeze drying step, which caused negligible phage loss. In vitro aerosol performance showed that the SFD powders (~80% phage recovery) provided better phage protection than the SD powders (~20% phage recovery) during the aerosolization process. Despite this, higher total lung doses were obtained for the SD formulations (SD-F1 = 13.1 ± 1.7 × 10@sup_begin4@sup_end pfu and SD-F2 = 11.0 ± 1.4 × 10@sup_begin4@sup_end pfu) than from their counterpart SFD formulations (SFD-F1 = 8.3 ± 1.8 × 10@sup_begin4@sup_end pfu and SFD-F2 = 2.1 ± 0.3 × 10@sup_begin4@sup_end pfu). Conclusion: Overall, the SD method caused less phage reduction during the powder formation process and the resulted powders achieved better aerosol performance for PEV2.

pui:2006121215
Title:Focus on perchlozone, an anti-tuberculosis drug from the Russian Federation
Authors:I. MalíkJ. ČižmárikM. Pecháčová
Absract:The prevalence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR--TB) and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR--TB) has been increasing at an alarming rate worldwide. Today’s “Fight against Tuberculosis“ programmes in the Russian Federation are subsidized by state and regional governments as well as health authorities. Each region has its own specific characteristics and needs specific interventions. Although some novel anti-tuberculosis (anti-TB) drugs (bedaquiline, delamanid) were approved by relevant authorities, and some promising compounds, especially those of oxazolidinones, are in various phases of clinical trials worldwide, the finding of effective, safe, pharmacokinetically favo-rable, economically and logistically accessible anti-TB agents still remains a serious challenge for medical and pharmaceutical sciences. Perchlozone, a compound containing a thiosemicarbazone scaffold, was approved in the Russian Federation in 2012 for the treatment (alone or as the active component of complex treatment regimens) of HIV-1 negative as well as HIV-1 positive patients suffering from MDR-TB or XDR-TB. Mechanism of anti-TB action of perchlozone might be similar to that of thiacetazone, which belongs into the same chemical class. Perchlozone has to be probably activated into reactive species by a mycobacterially encoded monoxygenase (EthA). The activated forms might act in multiple ways, including inhibition of mycobacterial cell wall synthesis due to interfence with a dehydration step of the type II fatty acid synthase pathway or sensitization of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis cell to oxidative stress. Favorable toxicological properties of perchlozone and its tolerability by the human organism were confirmed within revevant preclinical and clinical studies. However, recent preliminary investigations in vivo (animal models) could indicate genotoxicity after subacute inhalation of the drug. Regarding this issue, further development of more convenient nano-or microparticle-based formulations of perchlozone potentially improving targeted delivering and efficiency as well as decreasing (eliminating) its eventual toxicity might be taken into strong consideration.

doi:10.1007/s40263-016-0386-8
Title:Novel Levodopa Formulations for Parkinson’s Disease
Authors:M.E. FreitasM. Ruiz-LopezS.H. Fox
Absract:Levodopa remains the most effective treatment for Parkinson’s disease and is considered the gold standard therapy. However, disease progression and changes in the gastrointestinal tract result in a declining window of treatment response in a majority of patients. Efforts have been made recently to improve levodopa bioavailability either by developing more effective oral formulations or by innovating routes of administration (intestinal infusion, transcutaneous or inhaled levodopa). IPX066 is a novel levodopa–carbidopa (LD/CD) oral formulation combining immediate-release (IR) and extended-release (ER) LD/CD recently approved in the USA and the EU. Levodopa–carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is an approved therapy consisting of a suspension of levodopa and carbidopa infused directly into the proximal jejunum via a percutaneous endoscopic gastrojejunostomy (PEG-J) tube through a portable infusion pump. Ongoing studies are evaluating the ‘accordion pill’ (AP09004), an ER LD/CD formulation with gastroretentive properties. ND0612 is a proprietary liquid formulation of LD/CD that enables subcutaneous administration via a small patch-pump device, and CVT-301 is a levodopa inhalation powder with rapid onset of action; both are currently in active studies. Other novel formulations have been discontinued, including DM-1992, which is a bilayer formulation containing an IR LD/CD layer and an ER LD/CD layer with gastroretentive properties, and XP21279, a novel oral levodopa prodrug that is absorbed from the small and large intestine by high-capacity nutrient transporters expressed throughout the gastrointestinal system. ODM-101 is a new oral formulation of levodopa/carbidopa/entacapone that contains a higher amount of carbidopa (65 or 105 mg), but no active studies are underway. The current review aims to summarize the pharmacokinetic aspects, clinical efficacy, and potential adverse events of novel levodopa formulations currently available or under development.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0794
Title:Formulations for pulmonary administration of anticancer agents to treat lung malignancies
Authors:T.C. CarvalhoS.R. CarvalhoJ.T. McConville
Absract:Chemotherapy plays a significant role both as primary and as supportive care for lung cancer treatment. The majority of currently available anticancer agents are administrated intravenously, causing side effects due to the systemic drug distribution. Alternatively, the bioavailability of orally administrated anticancer agents is usually compromised by the first-pass metabolism. Pulmonary administration may be a potential route for anticancer drug delivery to treat lung tumors, due to its site specific delivery, avoidance of first-pass metabolism, possibility of fewer side effects, and improved comfort for cancer patients using a needle-free delivery device. However, to attain an effective inhalational delivery, there is a requirement to design a formulation with appropriate aerodynamic properties with well-suited excipients. This review article explores work to date related to the formulations developed for pulmonary delivery of small molecule antineoplastic agents to treat primary and metastatic lung carcinomas. Ultimately, it highlights the importance of formulation design to define the role of inhalational chemotherapy. © 2011, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/S1081-1206(10)63022-0
Title:Pilot study of bronchodilator response to inhaled albuterol delivered by metered-dose inhaler and a novel dry powder inhaler
Authors:J.P. KempM.R. HillL.M. VaughanE.O. MeltzerM.J. WelchN.K. Ostrom
Absract:Background: The metered-dose inhaler is currently one of the most prescribed methods of delivering drags to the lungs. In the United States, most currently marketed metered dose inhalers use chlorofluorocarbons as the system propellant and require patient breath coordination. These factors lead to the need for a delivery system that is independent of propellants and patient coordination. Objective: To compare the magnitude and time course of bronchodilation between albuterol delivered by Ventolin metered dose inhaler and albuterol sulfate powder (Rotacaps) delivered by a novel dry powder inhaler that generates a respirable drag aerosol over a range of inspiratory flow rates. Methods: A single-center, single-dose, randomized, placebo- controlled, partial' blind, 3-way crossover study was conducted in an outpatient asthma Clinical Research Center. Twelve mild to moderate asthmatic patients 12 to 36 years of age participated in this study that involved three treatments, each separated by three to eight days, consisting of 2 puffs (90 μg/puff) albuterol by Ventolin metered-dose inhaler, two inhalations (100 μg/puff) albuterol sulfate powder (Rotacaps) by dry powder inhaler, and two inhalations (12.5 mg/inhalation) lactose powder by dry powder inhaler. Spirometry, blood pressure, and heart rate were measured at 30 minutes; 15 minutes, and immediately before treatment and then at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, and 300 minutes after each treatment. Serum potassium and glucose, and electrocardiograms were measured at 30 minutes before, and 30, 60, 90, and 180 minutes after each treatment. Endpoints were compared with analysis of variance. Results: Five patients (one metered-dose inhaler and four dry powder inhaler) did not respond with >15% FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end increase over baseline within 30 minutes. Metereddose inhaler and dry powder inhaler mean FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end results, respectively, for 11 and 8 responders were 15 minutes in onset, 202.9 and 185.4 minutes in duration, 24.8% and 25.1% maximum change, and 18.6 and 18.2 area-under-FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end-bronchodilation-curve. Statistical analysis of all patients and responders-only revealed both active treatments to be different from placebo (P = .0018), but not different from each other (P = .1291). No safety endpoints were significantly different among all three treatments (P > .10 for all safety endpoints). Conclusions: In this study, the dry powder inhaler safely and effectively delivered a commercially available albuterol sulfate powder (Rotacaps) into human lungs with bronchodilation comparable to Ventolin metered-dose inhaler.

doi:10.1111/jvp.12623
Title:KN the application of physiologically-based kinetic modeling in veterinary science
Authors:R. Gehring
Absract:Physiologically-based (PBK) modeling is a powerful and versatile tool that integrates knowledge of physiological processes with physico-chemical characteristics of exogenous compounds to predict their concentrations in different parts of the body over time. The utility of PBK models lies in the fact that the pharmacological and toxi-cological effects of xenobiotics are related to their concentrations at the biophase. In contrast to empirical kinetic models, for which parameter values are calculated based on their fit to experimental data, PBK models are developed based on our knowledge about a compound's physicochemical characteristics and how these interact with the (patho)physiology of an animal. PBK models are then applied to predict tissue-specific exposures with experiments being conducted to generate data that test and validate these model predictions. One of the advantages of the bottom-up approach is that, if the prediction differs from the data, explanations can be sought based on the mechanistic nature of the model [1]. A typical PBK model is composed of a structural model that consists of compartments representing organs. Each organ may consist of one or more compartments, with the premise that the content within a compartment is homogenous. Compartments are then linked to each other either directly or by circulating blood and/or lymph. The fact that compartments relate to actual organs means that they can be varied according to knowledge about their relative size (in proportion to total body weight) and blood flow. Important species differences such as the proportion of total body mass at-tributable to fat, the size and structure of the gastrointestinal tract, and blood flow to different muscle groups can all be incorporated into a PBK model. Exposure can be modeled by various formulations through oral, parenteral and/or inhalation routes, and excretion can occur through the kidneys, liver (metabolism) and/or lungs. If known, differences in the expression and function of drug transporters and metabolizing enzymes can be incorporated into the model [2]. PBK models can be extremely complex, although the level of detail that is included in a model can vary, depending on the extent of knowledge about the system and the research question to be answered. Now that computing power is no longer a constraint, there is an increased interest in applying PBK models to veterinary medicine. Various publications and projects describe applications that vary from examining the effect of formulation changes on drug absorption to predicting residue concentrations in edible tissues of food-producing animals [3]. Breed and species differences, as well as changes in dosage regimens and routes of administration have been examined [4]. PBK modeling lends itself well to extrapolating between species, and can also be applied to within-species differences due to age, sex, reproductive and health status [5].

pui:622967793
Title:Aerosolized KL4 surfactant for mitigating highly pathogenic avian (H5N1) influenza-induced acute lung injury and mortality
Authors:R. SegalW.S. TysonL.A. WeinsteinT.J. GregoryY. Li
Absract:INTRODUCTION: Pandemic and highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) strains are a major public health concern carrying high morbidity and mortality associated with influenza-induced progressive acute lung injury (ALI). There is an urgent need to develop new therapeutic candidates that have the potential to prevent severe life-threatening complications of newly emerging and vaccine and anti-viral resistant influenza strains. Based on current data supporting its lung-protective and immunomodulatory properties, a peptide-based synthetic KL4 surfactant has potential as a multi-use medical countermeasure (MCM) to protect the lung against a variety of pulmonary threat agents including HPAI. Proof of concept studies with our liquid formulation in a murine pandemic (H1N1) model supported evaluation of the more clinically applicable aerosolized KL4 surfactant delivery approach against a highly lethal influenza strain. OBJECTIVE: Investigate whether aerosolized KL4 surfactant can mitigate HPAI-induced ALI and death in a well established animal model. METHODS: Reconstituted lyophilized KL4 surfactant (30 mg total phospholipid [TPL]/mL, dosed at 70 mg TPL/kg), or water-for-injection (WFI) as control was delivered as an aerosol using our proprietary capillary aerosol generator (CAG) device to H5N1 (A/Vietnam1203/04) infected animals (n=6/group; lethal dose - 1×10@sup_begin3@sup_end TCID50) via an inhalation route using a nose-only rodent exposure system (NORES) for 10 days through their acute pneumonic phase. Oseltamivir (25 mg/kg, therapeutic range for ferrets) given by oral gavage served as a positive control. Clinical sign/symptoms and body temperature were evaluated daily. 1 random animal per group at Day 5 post infection (leaving 5 animals for evaluation of survival), moribund, and all surviving animals euthanized at study completion (Day 14) underwent lung histopathology and scoring for lung injury (grades 0-4). RESULTS: Aerosolized KL4 surfactant-treated animals had overall less severe clinical signs and symptoms of disease than both control and oseltamivir-treated animals, as well less lung injury (based on histopathological exam/scoring) with complete resolution of pneumonitis on the Day 14. Aerosolized KL4 (histopathological score) deaths were substantially less vs. WFI controls and similar to oseltamivir (only 1 death each for KL and the antiviral [AVD] as in Fig). CONCLUSION: Aerosolized KL4 surfactant has the potential as a multiuse MCM to protect the lung and reduce deaths in patients exposed to highly pathogenic influenza as shown here, as well as against pandemic strains and other pulmonary threat agents based on prior animal studies.

doi:10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.07.030
Title:Different approaches in the treatment of obstructive pulmonary diseases
Authors:E.R. KabirN. Morshed
Absract:Abstract Advances in drug formulation, inhalation device design and disease management are generating new opportunities for patients suffering from obstructive pulmonary diseases. This article provides a comprehensive review of the different promising pulmonary drug delivery technologies in the treatment of obstructive pulmonary diseases, particularly with regard to the treatment of asthma and chronic pulmonary diseases (COPD), which are increasing day by day due to increasing environmental pollution and its harmful and toxic contaminants. In the recent years, a better knowledge has been gained regarding the mechanism of action of glucocorticoids and how they suppress the chronic inflammation. New etiology has been brought into light regarding the inactivity of glucocorticoids in some patients having asthma and COPDs even though the inflammatory genes are triggered by similar molecules in both the diseases. This new knowledge has given a new platform to improve glucocorticoids and their resistance also how other combination therapy can be used for these diseases. It has also led to the quest for improving and developing other alternatives such as anti-leukotriene agents, muscarinic inhibitors, combination therapy, as well as biologic immune-modulators in the treatment of the different pulmonary diseases. Several new combinations of glucocorticoids are available in the global market for the use in pulmonary diseases especially asthma although their availability fluctuates between continents. There has been several studies done regarding the variation of effectiveness of the different inhaled glucocorticoids and hence it is important to take into consideration the different delivery systems and the methods which are used to treat the patients.

doi:10.1016/j.nut.2009.08.001
Title:Inhaled insulin-Intrapulmonary, intranasal, and other routes of administration: Mechanisms of action
Authors:R.I. Henkin
Absract:Background: After discovery of insulin as a hypoglycemic agent in 1921 various routes of administration to control blood glucose were attempted. These included subcutaneous, oral, rectal, sublingual, buccal, transdermal, vaginal, intramuscular, intrapulmonary and intranasal delivery systems. While each delivery system controlled hyperglycemia the subcutaneous route was given priority until 2006 when the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) approved the first commercially available pulmonary inhaled insulin. Methods: A review of major publications dealing with intrapulmonary administration of insulin was made to understand the physiological basis for its use, its efficacy in controlling hyperglycemia, its side effects and a comparison of its efficacy with other delivery methods. Results: The large surface area of the lung, its good vascularization, capacity for solute exchange and ultra thin membranes of alveolar epithelia are unique features that facilitate pulmonary insulin delivery. Large lung surface area (∼75 m@sup_begin2@sup_end) and thin alveolar epithelium (∼0.1-0.5 μm) permit rapid drug absorption. First pass metabolism avoids gastrointestinal tract metabolism. Lung drug delivery depends upon a complex of factors including size, shape, density, charge and pH of delivery entity, velocity of entry, quality of aerosol deposition, character of alveoli, binding characteristics of aerosol on the alveolar surface, quality of alveolar capillary bed and its subsequent vascular tree. Many studies were performed to optimize each of these factors using several delivery systems to enhance pulmonary absorption. Availability was about 80% of subcutaneous administration with peak activity within 40-60 min of administration. Intranasal insulin delivery faces a smaller surface area (∼180 cm@sup_begin2@sup_end) with quite different absorption characteristics in nasal epithelium and its associated vasculature. Absorption depends upon many factors including composition and character of nasal mucus. Absorption of intranasal insulin resulted in a faster absorption time course than with subcutaneous insulin. Interpretation: After many studies the FDA approved Pfizer's product, Exubera, for intrapulmonary insulin delivery. While the system was effective its expense and putative side effects caused the drug company to withdraw the drug from the marketplace. Attempts by other pharmaceutical companies to use intrapulmonary insulin delivery are presently being made as well as some minor attempts to use intranasal delivery systems. © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.2165/00139709-200524020-00007
Title:A clinical and pharmacoeconomic justification for intravenous acetylcysteine: A US perspective
Authors:C.M. CulleyE.P. Krenzelok
Absract:Paracetamol (acetaminophen) poisoning remains the most common exposure reported to US poison information centres and the leading cause of poisoning-related fatalities, despite the availability of an effective antidote, acetylcysteine. Oral acetylcysteine solution has been approved for the management of acetaminophen poisoning in the US for four decades. Until the recent approval of intravenous acetylcysteine in the US, it was necessary to compound the oral solution for intravenous administration. The effectiveness and tolerability of oral and intravenous acetylcysteine for the prevention of hepatotoxicity induced by paracetamol poisoning are well established in the literature. Intravenous acetylcysteine may be preferred over oral administration based on improved tolerability, ease of administration and the shortened course of therapy (20 hours intravenous vs 72 hours oral). The two intravenous acetylcysteine regimens documented in the literature, 48 hours and 20 hours, have similar efficacy when started within 8-10 hours of ingestion. Although there are no legal concerns with continuing the routine compounding of the oral solution to an intravenous product, new standards for pharmacy compounding of sterile preparations set forth by the US Pharmacopoeia highlight that the risk of compounding products for intravenous use must be assessed carefully. Changing the route of administration of a sterile oral solution to an intravenous preparation, when a commercial sterile and pyrogen-free product is available, may not be advisable. The best cost-containment strategies must be used for introduction of the more costly sterile, pyrogen-free intravenous acetylcysteine formulation by hospitals and healthcare systems. The intravenous acetylcysteine product is more cost effective when given for 20 hours than other treatment protocols based on the costs of acetylcysteine and hospitalisation. If used per protocol, the 20-hour intravenous acetylcysteine regimen may decrease hospital length of stay, thereby, offsetting the increased drug cost. Data conflict on the efficacy and administration of intravenous acetylcysteine for off-label uses, such as radiographic contrast media-induced nephropathy prevention and reperfusion in orthotopic liver transplantation. The costs for the intravenous formulation for these indications is significantly higher than use of the oral formulation for oral administration in radiographic contrast media-induced nephropathy prevention and compounded for intravenous use in orthotopic liver transplantation. The oral solution should be retained by healthcare systems for oral and inhalation applications, such as respiratory conditions, oral administration for radiographic contrast media nephropathy prevention, or the use of the 72-hour oral protocol to treat paracetamol poisoning, when the intravenous preparation cannot be used. © 2005 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1177/109158189901800203
Title:Final report on the safety assessment of Ceteth-1, -2, -3, -4, -5, -6, - 10, -12, -14, -15, -16, -20, -24, -25, -30, and -45
Authors:F.A. Andersen
Absract:The Ceteth family of ingredients are the polyethylene glycol (PEG) ethers of cetyl alcohol. They are manufactured by the ethoxylation of cetyl alcohol with the number of moles of ethylene oxide corresponding to the average polyethylene glycol chain length desired. Not all of the polymer chain lengths covered in this assessment are currently reported to be used, but all are listed as cosmetic ingredients and may have been used in the past and could be used in the future. Ceteths are surfactants used as emulsifying, cleansing, and solubilizing agents in cosmetic formulations. Limited safety test data are available on ingredients in the Ceteth family, all consistent with surfactant properties. In separate studies, 2.5% Ceteth-2 was irritating to abraded skin, but 3.0% was not irritating to intact skin. Dose-dependent irritation was noted for Ceteth-2 and Ceteth-10 at concentrations ranging from 5% to 100%. Ceteth-20 was found to enhance transposition of a marker from phage λ to bacterial DNA. Toxicity data, including reproductive and developmental toxicity, carcinogenesis data, and clinical testing data, available from previous safety assessments on Polyethylene Glycol and Cetyl Alcohol, were summarized. Although PEGs were mild irritants/sensitizers, there was evidence of nephrotoxicity in burn patients exposed to PEGs, and no such effects were seen in animal studies on intact skin. This led to a recommendation that PEGs not be used on damaged skin. Irritant effects of Ceteths on abraded skin not seen with intact skin likewise suggested that cosmetic manufacturers should not use Ceteths in products that may be used on damaged skin. Although metabolites of ethylene glycol monalkyl ethers are reproductive and developmental toxins, it was considered unlikely that the relevant metabolites would be found in or produced from the use of Ceteths in cosmetic formulations. Of concern was the possible presence of 1,4-dioxane and ethylene oxide impurities. The importance of using the necessary purification procedures to remove these impurities was stressed. Inhalation of Cetyl Alcohol at 26 ppm for 6 hours caused mucosal irritation, but shorter exposures at a concentration of 9.6 mg/L caused no irritation. Based on this data and with particle size and cosmetic use concentrations, Ceteths were considered to be safe for aerosolized use. Based in part on the limited data available on Ceteths included in the report and on the previous reviews of the two components found in Ceteths, it was concluded that Ceteth-1, -2, - 3, -4, -5, -6, -10, -12, -14, -15, -16, -20, -24, -25, -30, and -45 are safe in the present practices of use.

doi:10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.09.008
Title:Phase 1 clinical trials of DAS181, an inhaled sialidase, in healthy adults
Authors:J.M. ZenilmanE.J. FuchsC.W. HendrixC. RadebaughR. JuraoS.U. NayakR.G. HamiltonJ. McLeod Griffiss
Absract:DAS181, (study drug, Fludase®) was developed for treatment of influenza and parainfluenza infections. Delivered by inhalation, DAS181 cleaves sialic acid receptors from respiratory epithelial cells. Treatment of influenza for three days with DAS181 reduced viral shedding. To increase deposition in the upper airways and decrease systemic absorption, the particle size was increased to 10 μm. We conducted two Phase I trials with three cohorts, randomized 2:1, active drug to placebo. The initial cohort got a single 20 mg dose of DAS181, or placebo; the second, 20 mg DAS181 or placebo for 10 days, and the third got 20 mg of DAS181 or placebo for 3 days. Formulations differed slightly in their excipients. Subjects in the 1- and 3-day cohorts completed dosing without serious adverse events. Two subjects in the 10-day cohort stopped at Day 9 after developing respiratory and systemic symptoms, and a third experienced a decrease in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end (Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 s) after the 9th dose and a further decline after the 10th dose. Plasma DAS181, in the 10-day cohort, peaked and began falling before the last dose. Antibodies, predominately IgG with neutralizing activity, were detected in 15/18 subjects by Day 30. The highest IgG concentrations were in the 10-day cohort. The respiratory adverse events occurring after seven days and rapid drug clearance during continued dosing are consistent with the induction of DAS181 antibodies. This could preclude use of this medication for longer than seven days or for repeated courses. (These studies have been registered at ClinicalTrials.gov under registration Nos. NCT 00527865 and NCT 01651494.)

doi:10.1007/s11095-010-0128-4
Title:Particle aerosolisation and break-up in dry powder inhalers 1: Evaluation and modelling of venturi effects for agglomerated systems
Authors:W. WongD.F. FletcherD. TrainiH.-K. ChanJ. CrapperP.M. Young
Absract:Purpose: This study utilized a combination of computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and standardized entrainment tubes to investigate the influence of turbulence on the break-up and aerosol performance of a model inhalation formulation. Methods: Agglomerates (642.8 μm mean diameter) containing 3.91 μm median diameter primary spherical mannitol particles were prepared by spheronisation. A series of entrainment tubes with different Venturi sections were constructed in silico, and the flow pattern and turbulence/impaction parameters were predicted using CFD. The entrainment models were constructed from the in silico model using three-dimensional printing. The aerosol performance of the mannitol was assessed by entraining the agglomerates into the experimental tubes at a series of flow rates and assessing the size distribution downstream of the venturi via in-line laser diffraction. Results: A series of parameters (including Reynolds number (Re), turbulence kinetic energy, turbulence eddy frequency, turbulence length-scale, velocity and pressure drop) were calculated from the CFD simulation. The venturi diameter and volumetric flow rate were varied systematically. The particle size data of the agglomerated powders were then correlated with the CFD measurements. No correlation between turbulence and aerosol performance could be made (i.e. at a Reynolds number of 8,570, the d@sub_begin0.1@sub_end was 52.5 μm±19.7 μm, yet at a Reynolds number of 12,000, the d@sub_begin0.1@sub_end was 429.1 μm±14.8 μm). Lagrangian particle tracking indicated an increase in the number of impactions and the normal velocity component at the wall, with increased volumetric airflow and reduced venturi diameter. Chemical analysis of the mannitol deposited on the walls showed a linear relationship with respect to the theoretical number of impactions (R@sup_begin2@sup_end=0.9620). Analysis of the relationship between the CFD results and the experimental size data indicated a critical impact velocity was required to initiate agglomerate break-up (∼ 0.4 m.s@sup_begin-1@sup_end). Conclusion: While this study focussed on the effect of turbulence on agglomerate break-up, the small amount of impaction, which inevitably occurs in the venturi assembly, appeared to dominate agglomerate break-up in this dry powder system. © 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.

doi:10.1007/s13346-020-00802-8
Title:Afatinib-loaded inhalable PLGA nanoparticles for localized therapy of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)—development and in-vitro efficacy
Authors:R.S. ElbatanonyV. ParvathaneniN.S. KulkarniS.K. ShuklaG. ChauhanN.K. KundaV. Gupta
Absract:Afatinib (AFA) is a potent aniline–quinazoline derivative, approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2013, as a first-line treatment for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, its clinical application is highly limited by its poor solubility, and consequently low bioavailability. We hypothesize that loading of AFA into biodegradable PLGA nanoparticles for localized inhalational drug delivery will be instrumental in improving therapeutic outcomes in NSCLC patients. Formulated AFA nanoparticles (AFA-NP) were evaluated for physicochemical properties (particle size: 180.2 ± 15.6 nm, zeta potential: − 23.1 ± 0.2 mV, % entrapment efficiency: 34.4 ± 2.3%), formulation stability, in-vitro aerosol deposition behavior, and anticancer efficacy. Stability studies revealed the physicochemical stability of AFA-NP. Moreover, AFA-NP exhibited excellent inhalable properties (mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD): 4.7 ± 0.1 μm; fine particle fraction (FPF): 77.8 ± 4.3%), indicating efficient particle deposition in deep lung regions. With respect to in-vitro drug release, AFA-NP showed sustained drug release with cumulative release of 56.8 ± 6.4% after 48 h. Cytotoxic studies revealed that encapsulation of AFA into PLGA nanoparticles significantly enhanced its cytotoxic potential in KRAS-mutated NSCLC cell lines (A549, H460). Cellular uptake studies revealed enhanced internalization of coumarin-loaded nanoparticles compared to plain coumarin in A549. In addition, 3D tumor spheroid studies demonstrated superior efficacy of AFA-NP in tumor penetration and growth inhibition. To conclude, we have established in-vitro efficacy of afatinib-loaded PLGA nanoparticles as inhalable NSCLC therapy, which will be of great significance when designing preclinical and clinical studies. [Figure not available: see fulltext.]

doi:10.2174/1574885514666190104114209
Title:Formulation of dry powder inhaler of anti-tuberculous drug s using spray drying technique and optimization using 2@sup_begin3@sup_end level factorial design approach
Authors:V. ThakkarE. PandeyT. PandyaP. ShahA. PatelR. TrivediM. GohelL. BaldaniyaT. Gandhi
Absract:Background: Targeting anti-tubercular therapeutics to alveolar macrophages using microparticles technology mainly focuses on increasing local concentrations of therapeutics and potentially reducing the frequency of dosing requirements. Rifampicin (RIF), Ofloxacin (OFX) and Ethambutol (ETH) combination show synergism. Objective: In light of the above facts, the focus of the present study was to develop and characterize novel Dry powder Inhaler formulation incorporating novel drug combination as a pulmonary delivery for the effective eradication of Tuberculosis. Method: Biodegradable microparticles containing RIF, OFX and ETH were prepared by a spray drying technique using PLGA polymer through the critical process as well as polymer attributes were screened and optimized using 23 factorial design. The identified critical process parameters (CPP’s) viz. Inlet temperature, Aspiration rate, and feed rate were selected as independent variables while percentage yield, percentage entrapment efficiency, and particle size were selected as a response. The formulated microparticles were evaluated for particle size, drug-polymer compatibility study, aerodynamic behavior, morphology, particle size distribution, crystallinity, residual solvent content, in-vitro drug release study, and stability study. Results: By choosing the optimum spray drying conditions maximum yield of 73%, entrapment efficiency of 86% and particle size of 1.4 µm was attained of the optimized batch. Thus the results revealed that spherical microparticles are suitable for inhalation and sustained release for 12 h. Conclusion: The successful formulation and evaluation of dry powder could be used as an enhanced therapeutic alternative of the standard oral anti-tubercular regimen, rescuing oral dosing, shortening drug regimen and limiting toxicity. This will ultimately improve patient compliance and diminish the prevalence of MDR resistance.

doi:10.1007/s40262-018-0672-3
Title:Clinical Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Propofol
Authors:M.M. SahinovicM.M.R.F. StruysA.R. Absalom
Absract:Propofol is an intravenous hypnotic drug that is used for induction and maintenance of sedation and general anaesthesia. It exerts its effects through potentiation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) at the GABA@sub_beginA@sub_end receptor, and has gained widespread use due to its favourable drug effect profile. The main adverse effects are disturbances in cardiopulmonary physiology. Due to its narrow therapeutic margin, propofol should only be administered by practitioners trained and experienced in providing general anaesthesia. Many pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) models for propofol exist. Some are used to inform drug dosing guidelines, and some are also implemented in so-called target-controlled infusion devices, to calculate the infusion rates required for user-defined target plasma or effect-site concentrations. Most of the models were designed for use in a specific and well-defined patient category. However, models applicable in a more general population have recently been developed and published. The most recent example is the general purpose propofol model developed by Eleveld and colleagues. Retrospective predictive performance evaluations show that this model performs as well as, or even better than, PK models developed for specific populations, such as adults, children or the obese; however, prospective evaluation of the model is still required. Propofol undergoes extensive PK and PD interactions with both other hypnotic drugs and opioids. PD interactions are the most clinically significant, and, with other hypnotics, tend to be additive, whereas interactions with opioids tend to be highly synergistic. Response surface modelling provides a tool to gain understanding and explore these complex interactions. Visual displays illustrating the effect of these interactions in real time can aid clinicians in optimal drug dosing while minimizing adverse effects. In this review, we provide an overview of the PK and PD of propofol in order to refresh readers’ knowledge of its clinical applications, while discussing the main avenues of research where significant recent advances have been made.

doi:10.3892/mmr.2018.8747
Title:Therapeutic effects of liver soothing pingchuan formula decoction on experimental asthma in BALB/c mice via regulation of nerve growth factor-tyrosine kinase A pathway
Authors:X.-G. ZhangZ. XueY.-T. ZhaoL. BaiF. LiuL.-Q. LiJ. WuJ.-D. ZhouJ.-E. Yu
Absract:The present study was designed to investigate the effects of liver soothing pingchuan formula decoction (LSPF) on experimental asthma in BALB/c mice and explore its potential molecular mechanisms. An animal model of asthma was established in BALB/c mice through sensitization and activation with intraperitoneal injection of 10% ovalbumin (OVA)/Al(OH)3 solution in addition to inhalation of a 5% OVA solution. LSPF (300 and 600 mg/kg/day) was initially administered orally prior to activation. Following this, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and lung tissues were collected for histopathalogical examination. Levels of inflammatory cells and cytokines were determined in the BALF, and levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) and tyrosine kinase A (TrkA) in the lung tissues were determined. The results of the present study indicated that increased inflammatory reactions were observed following OVA sensitization (P<0.05), and the expression levels of NGF (P<0.05) and TrkA (P<0.05) were significantly increased, compared with normal mice. Notably, compared with the asthma model group, immunohistochemical results revealed that LSPF treatment suppressed OVA induced inflammatory reactions (P<0.05) and NGF (P<0.05) and TrkA expression levels (P<0.05). In addition, the NGF (P<0.05) and TrkA (P<0.05) were revealed to be downregulated with LSPF treatment from the results of the ELISA and western blotting assay. Overall, the results of the present study demonstrated that LSPF exhibits therapeutic effects on experimental asthma in mice, via downregulation of the NGF-TrkA pathway.

doi:10.1358/dot.2012.48.2.1745275
Title:New formulations of fentanyl for acute pain management
Authors:M.J. PaechM. BloorS.A. Schug
Absract:Intravenous fentanyl citrate has stood the test of time as a valuable formulation for pain management. The desirable physicochemical properties of fentanyl have allowed the development of several alternative formulations for delivery using less invasive routes, for example, transmucosal (intranasal, oral buccal and oral sublingual) and transdermal. These new formulations have been applied to clinical settings in which rapid onset of analgesia is desired, using convenient but noninvasive methods. Recent commercialization of various formulations has been driven largely by the needs of cancer patients, for whom severe but self-limiting "breakthrough" pain is less suitably treated by parenteral or oral routes of opioid administration. However, these formulations are also used for acute analgesia in prehospital and in-hospital emergency department care, and for pediatric acute pain management. Finally, they are increasingly used by patients with chronic pain of nonmalignant origin, although there is considerable debate about their merit in this group. We searched the databases MEDLINE, PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL and Cochrane up to October 2011, using search terms "fentanyl AND nasal; intranasal; transmucosal; buccal; sublingual; oral; inhaled; inhalation; transdermal". The characteristics of several formulations of fentanyl are reviewed, detailing their pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and clinical experience with their use for acute pain management. Copyright © 2012 Prous Science, S.A.U. or its licensors. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1002/nbm.1570
Title:Fluorine (@sup_begin19@sup_endF) MRS and MRI in biomedicine
Authors:J. Ruiz-CabelloB.P. BarnettP.A. BottomleyJ.W. Bulte
Absract:Shortly after the introduction of @sup_begin1@sup_endH MRI, fluorinated molecules were tested as MR-detectable tracers or contrast agents. Many fluorinated compounds, which are nontoxic and chemically inert, are now being used in a broad range of biomedical applications, including anesthetics, chemotherapeutic agents, and molecules with high oxygen solubility for respiration and blood substitution. These compounds can be monitored by fluorine (@sup_begin19@sup_endF) MRI and/or MRS, providing a noninvasive means to interrogate associated functions in biological systems. As a result of the lack of endogenous fluorine in living organisms, @sup_begin19@sup_endF MRI of 'hotspots' of targeted fluorinated contrast agents has recently opened up new research avenues in molecular and cellular imaging. This includes the specific targeting and imaging of cellular surface epitopes, as well as MRI cell tracking of endogenous macrophages, injected immune cells and stem cell transplants. © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

doi:10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.v19.i45.40
Title:Pulmonary drug delivery systems: Recent developments and prospects
Authors:H.M. CourrierN. ButzTh.F. Vandamme
Absract:Targeting drug delivery into the lungs has become one of the most important aspects of systemic or local drug delivery systems. Consequently, in the last few years, techniques and new drug delivery devices intended to deliver drugs into the lungs have been widely developed. Currently, the main drug targeting regimens include direct application of a drug into the lungs, mostly by inhalation therapy using either pressurized metered dose inhalers (pMDI) or dry powder inhalers (DPI). Intratracheal administration is commonly used as a first approach in lung drug delivery in vivo. To convey a sufficient dose of drug to the lungs, suitable drug carriers are required. These can be either solid, liquid, or gaseous excipients. Liposomes, nano- and microparticles, cyclodextrins, microemulsions, micelles, suspensions, or solutions are all examples of this type of pharmaceutical carrier that have been successfully used to target drugs into the lungs. The use of microreservoir-type systems offers clear advantages, such as high loading capacity and the possibility of controlling size and permeability, and thus of controlling the release kinetics of the drugs from the carrier systems. These systems make it possible to use relatively small numbers of vector molecules to deliver substantial amounts of a drug to the target. This review discusses the drug carriers administered or intended to be administered into the lungs. The transition to CFC-free inhalers and drug delivery systems formulated with new propellants are also discussed. Finally, in addition to the various advances made in the field of pulmonary-route administration, we describe new systems based on perfluorooctyl bromide, which guarantee oxygen delivery in the event of respiratory distress and drug delivery into the lungs.

doi:10.2165/00003088-199732050-00003
Title:Pharmacokinetic studies with recombinant cytokines. Scientific issues and practical considerations
Authors:S.C. PiscitelliW.G. ReissW.D. FiggW.P. Petros
Absract:Advances in molecular biology and recombinant DNA technology have led to the development of cytokines as therapeutic agents for a variety of disease states. The pharmacokinetic analysis of cytokines involves the understanding of analytical methods capable of detecting these agents in biological fluids and recognition of several factors which may have an impact on the cytokine concentration-time curves. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) have become the most common method of detection and commercial kits are available for a wide variety of cytokines. Monoclonal antibody products are sensitive, have minimal crossreactivity and are relatively inexpensive when compared with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). However, the primary limitation of these assays is their inability to measure biologically active protein. Conversely, bioassays do measure a biological event (i.e. proliferation or cytotoxicity) but are generally not used for cytokine analysis because of their high cost, long assay completion time, lack of specificity, poor sensitivity and influence of environmental conditions on the outcome. The pharmacokinetic profile of recombinant cytokines is influenced by a number of variables: endogenous production, circulating soluble receptors and cell-associated receptors, immunocompetence and antibody production against the cytokine all may influence the disposition of the agent. Thus, pharmacokinetic modelling of cytokines may involve complex models capable of characterising these nonlinear processes and resulting effects. The route of administration is an important variable since cytokines administered by subcutaneous injection may be partially metabolised by proteases present in the subcutaneous tissue. Other methods to simplify cytokine delivery are being actively investigated and include formulations for inhalation, topical and oral administration. A variety of cytokines (including interferon-α, interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor) are capable of inhibiting cytochrome P450 hepatic enzymes and, therefore, possess the potential to cause drug-cytokine interactions. Inhibition has been demonstrated in several in vitro, systems and animal models, although clinical data are currently limited. An increased understanding of the many factors which can alter the analysis and pharmacokinetics of cytokines is essential to the design of optimal dosage regimens.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2017.07.033
Title:Investigation of L-leucine in reducing the moisture-induced deterioration of spray-dried salbutamol sulfate power for inhalation
Authors:L. LiS.S.Y. LeungT. GengenbachJ. YuG.F. GaoP. TangQ.T. ZhouH.-K. Chan
Absract:The aim of this study was to investigate the ability of L-leucine (LL) in preventing moisture-induced deterioration in the in vitro aerosolization performance of spray-dried (SD) salbutamol sulfate (SS). Increasing mass fraction of LL (5–80%) were co-spray dried with SS, and the physicochemical properties of the powders were characterized by laser diffraction, X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and dynamic vapour sorption (DVS). Furthermore, the surface morphology and chemistry of fine particles was analyzed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The in vitro aerosolization performance of powders stored at different relative humidity (RH) was evaluated by a next generation impactor (NGI). The SD SS powders were moderately hygroscopic and amorphous, of which the uptake of moisture upon storage caused a drop in the aerosolization performance. The results showed that 40% (w/w) LL was sufficient to eliminate the effect of moisture on the aerosolization performance at 60% RH. The formulation containing 40% (w/w) LL also maximized the aerosolization performance of SD SS powders (stored in desiccator) with the emitted fraction being 90.0 ± 1.8%, and the fine particle fraction based on the recovered dose (FPF@sub_beginrecovered@sub_end) and emitted dose (FPF@sub_beginemitted@sub_end) being 78.0 ± 3.7% and 86.6 ± 2.9%, respectively. The underlying mechanisms were that the crystalline LL increased the degree of particle surface corrugation, and reduced particle fusion and cohesiveness to facilitate dispersion. However, there is still a great challenge to prevent the moisture-induced deterioration in the aerosolization performance at 75% RH due to the recrystallization of SD SS. In conclusion, LL is a potential excipient for reducing moisture-induced deterioration in the aerosolization performance of SD amorphous powders, but still has drawbacks in preventing the recrystallization-induced deterioration.

doi:10.1208/s12248-015-9802-0
Title:De-agglomeration Effect of the US Pharmacopeia and Alberta Throats on Carrier-Based Powders in Commercial Inhalation Products
Authors:S.S.Y. LeungP. TangQ.T. ZhouZ. TongC. LeungJ. DecharaksaR. YangH.-K. Chan
Absract:The US pharmacopeia (USP) and Alberta throats were recently reported to cause further de-agglomeration of carrier-free powders emitted from some dry powder inhalers (DPIs). This study assessed if they have similar influences on commercially available carrier-based DPIs. A straight tube, a USP throat, and an Alberta throat (non-coated and coated) were used for cascade impaction testing. Aerosol fine particle fraction (FPF ≤ 5 μm) was computed to evaluate throat-induced de-agglomeration. Computational fluid dynamics are employed to simulate airflow patterns and particle trajectories inside the USP and Alberta throats. For all tested products, no significant differences in the in vitro aerosol performance were observed between the USP throat and the straight tube. Using fine lactose carriers (<10 μm), Symbicort@sup_begin®@sup_end and Oxis@sup_begin™@sup_end showed minimal impaction inside the Alberta throat and resulted in similar FPF among all induction ports. For products using coarse lactose carriers (>10 μm), impaction frequency and energy inside the Alberta throat were significant. Further de-agglomeration was noted inside the non-coated Alberta throat for Seretide@sup_begin®@sup_end and Spiriva@sup_begin®@sup_end, but agglomerates emitted from Relenza@sup_begin®@sup_end, Ventolin@sup_begin®@sup_end, and Foradil@sup_begin®@sup_end did not further break up into smaller fractions. The coated Alberta throat considerably reduced the FPF values of these products due to the high throat retention, but they generally agreed better with the in vivo data. In conclusion, depending on the powder formulation (including carrier particle size), the inhaler, and the induction port, further de-agglomeration could happen ex-inhaler and create differences in the in vitro measurements.

doi:10.2165/00003495-200464150-00005
Title:A review of ipratropium bromide/fenoterol hydrobromide (Berodual®) delivered via Respimat® Soft Mist™ Inhaler in patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:F. KässnerR. HodderE.D. Bateman
Absract:Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) can be effectively treated by the use of bronchodilator therapies delivered by inhalation. Berodual® is a fixed combination of the anticholinergic agent ipratropium bromide (IB) and the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonist fenoterol hydrobromide (FEN). IB/FEN has been available for the treatment of asthma and COPD in a pressurised metered dose inhaler (MDI) [pMDI] formulation for many years. The pMDI is the most widely used device for the delivery of inhaled medications, such as IB/FEN. However, most conventional pMDIs contain chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) propellants, which are currently being withdrawn because of their detrimental effects on the environment. This has resulted in alternative methods of drug delivery being developed. Respimat® Soft Mist™ Inhaler (SMI) is a new generation, propellant-free inhaler that generates a fine, slow-moving cloud (the Soft Mist™) which can be easily inhaled. Scintigraphic studies have shown that this improves deposition of drugs in the lung and results in less oropharyngeal deposition than the CFC-MDI. A clinical development programme has been conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of IB/FEN delivered via Respimat® SMI with that of IB/FEN via CFC-MDI in the treatment of patients with asthma or COPD. Five clinical studies (two phase II and three phase III) investigated dosages of IB/FEN 5/12.5μg to 320/800μg via Respimat® SMI in single and multiple dose administration regimens. Four of the trials were conducted in patients with asthma (three in adults and one in children), while one phase III trial was conducted in patients with COPD. In phase III, 2058 patients participated, with a total of 1112 patients treated with IB/FEN via Respimat® SMI. In the phase III studies, each dose from Respimat® SMI was given in one actuation compared with two actuations with the CFC-MDI. In the paediatric asthma phase III study, all CFC-MDI doses were delivered via a spacer device. The results of the trials demonstrated that IB/FEN via Respimat® SMI allows a reduction in the nominal dose of IB/FEN, while offering similar therapeutic efficacy and safety to a CFC-MDI. In children, Respimat® SMI obviates the need for a spacer.

pui:30054873
Title:Evaluation of the hazards of industrial exposure to tricresyl phosphate: A review and interpretation of the literature
Authors:P.H. CraigM.L. Barth
Absract:Commercial tricresyl phosphate (TCP) is a heterogeneous mixture of isomers and aryl phosphate congeners, known for many years to induce delayed neurotoxicity (OPIDN) in humans and experimental animals. In the past the isomer tri-o-cresyl phosphate (TOCP) was thought to be the component primarily responsible for OPIDN. It is now clear that other constituents, particularly the mono-o-esters, are not only neurotoxic but also may be more potent than pure TOCP. As a generality, the toxicity potential of a particular brand of TCP is related to its content of o-phenolic residues, whereby the maximal potential is reached when o-phenolics are 33% of the mix. Historically, human TCP toxicity has resulted from inadvertent or intentional contamination of foodstuffs or beverages. TCP products with high ortho-residues synthesized by older manufacturing methods were involved in most of these cases, and were likely much more neurotoxic milligram for milligram than TOCP. Because of the great variability of TCP products, there are no conventional workplace exposure standards. Based upon data from the hen and cat, estimated human safe exposure rates for pure TOCP are estimated to be 2.5 mg/kg for a single dose, and 0.13 mg/kg/d for repetitive exposures. These levels may also be applied to TCP when o-methyl-phenyl, o-ethyl-phenyl, and o-xylenyl components are appropriately limited during manufacture such that the TCP product is less neurotoxic than TOCP. There have been relatively few reports of toxicity associated with the manufacture or use of TCP in commerce and industry. Low vapor pressures of the constituents preclude the presence of significant quantities of TCP vapor in the atmosphere. A lubricant or other formulation containing TCP may appear in the air as a mist. By these criteria the U.S. Petroleum Oil Mist exposure standard is protective when the formulation contains 4% or less of low ortho-TCP. Exposure calculations indicate that estimated safe levels are not likely to be exceeded in the well-regulated workplace. If it is of short duration, even a heavy fog of oil particulate may not exceed the 8-h-average inhalation exposure standard. Modern manufacturing practices tend to minimize the ortho content and thus the toxicity of TCP. Because individual TCP brands and synthesis methods vary, manufacturers should be consulted concerning the properties of their individual products.

doi:10.1208/s12249-019-1344-9
Title:Design of Inhalable Solid Dosage Forms of Budesonide and Theophylline for Pulmonary Combination Therapy
Authors:D. LengE.O. KissiK. LöbmannK. ThankiE. FattalT. RadesC. FogedM. Yang
Absract:Corticosteroid resistance poses a major challenge to effective treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases. However, corticosteroid resistance can be overcome by co-administration of theophylline. The aim of this study was to formulate the corticosteroid budesonide with theophylline into inhalable dry powders intended for pulmonary combination therapy. Four types of spray-dried powders were prepared: (i) budesonide and theophylline co-dissolved and processed using a 2-fluid nozzle spray drier, (ii) budesonide nanocrystals and dissolved theophylline co-dispersed and processed using a 2-fluid nozzle spray drier, (iii) dissolved budesonide and dissolved theophylline processed using a 3-fluid nozzle spray drier, and (iv) budesonide nanocrystals and dissolved theophylline processed using a 3-fluid nozzle spray drier. Spray drying from the solutions resulted in co-amorphous (i) and partially amorphous powders (iii), whereas spray drying of the nanosuspensions resulted in crystalline products (ii and iv). Even though budesonide was amorphous in (i) and (iii), it failed to exhibit any dissolution advantage over the unprocessed budesonide. In contrast, the dissolution of budesonide from its nanocrystalline formulations, i.e., (ii) and (iv), was significantly higher compared to a physical mixture or unprocessed budesonide. Furthermore, the spray-dried powders obtained from the 2-fluid nozzle spray drier, i.e., (i) and (ii), exhibited co-deposition of budesonide and theophylline at the same weight ratio in the aerodynamic assessment using the New Generation Impactor. In contrast, the depositions of budesonide and theophylline deviated from the starting weight ratio in the aerodynamic assessment of spray-dried powders obtained from the 3-fluid nozzle spray drier, i.e., (iii) and (iv). Based on these results, the powders spray-dried from the suspension by using the 2-fluid nozzle spray drier, i.e., (ii), offered the best formulation properties given the physically stable crystalline solid-state properties and the co-deposition profile.

doi:10.2165/00003495-200060050-00012
Title:Inhaled salmeterol/fluticasone propionate combination: A review of its use in persistent asthma
Authors:A. MarkhamB. Jarvis
Absract:The long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonist salmeterol and the corticosteroid fluticasone propionate are available as a combination inhalation device for the treatment of persistent asthma. Well designed studies in adults, adolescents and children aged ≥4 years, demonstrate that combined salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50/100, 50/250 and 50/500μg administered via a dry powder inhaler (DPI) is clinically equivalent to concurrent delivery of the same dosages of the 2 drugs via separate DPIs. In adults and adolescents, combined salmeterol/fluticasone 50/100 and 50/250μg twice daily produced rapid improvements in lung function that were consistently greater than those in patients receiving monotherapy twice daily salmeterol 50μg, fluticasone propionate 100 or 250μg or placebo in 2 well designed studies. Recipients of the combination had a significantly greater probability of completing 12 weeks of treatment than patients receiving monotherapy or placebo. The combination also produced significant improvements between baseline and end-point in all secondary outcome variables (morning and evening peak expiratory flow, daytime symptom scores, days and nights without asthma symptoms and requirements for as-needed β-agonists) and health-related quality of life (QOL). Combination therapy was superior to monotherapy with salmeterol and placebo for all outcomes in both studies, and was superior to fluticasone propionate 100μg for all but 1 outcome (nights without awakenings) in 1 study. Similar results were obtained in patients who had previously been using short acting β2-agonists alone. Combined twice daily salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50/100 and 50/250μg produced greater improvements in lung function than inhaled budesonide at higher dosages than fluticasone propionate in the combination. Combined salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50/250μg produced similar improvements in lung function to concurrent budesonide 800μg plus formoterol 12μg when given twice daily for 12 weeks. In another 12-week trial, combined salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50/100μg was more effective than oral montelukast 10 mg/day plus fluticasone propionate 100μg twice daily in patients with suboptimally controlled asthma. Salmeterol/fluticasone is more cost effective than monotherapy with fluticasone propionate or budesonide. The most frequent adverse events associated with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate are headache, throat irritation, hoarseness and candidiasis. Conclusion: Combined salmeterol/fluticasone propionate is as effective as the 2 drugs given concurrently via separate inhalers and significantly more effective than either drug given alone at the same nominal dosage. The combination is also significantly more effective than montelukast plus fluticasone propionate or monotherapy with inhaled budesonide. Furthermore, the combination is more cost effective than inhaled corticosteroid monotherapy.

pui:25162292
Title:Double-blind, placebo-controlled, pharmacokinetic and -dynamic studies with 2 new formulations of piracetam (infusion and sirup) under hypoxia in man
Authors:B. SaletuG. HitzenbergerJ. GrunbergerP. AndererG. ZyhlarzL. LinzmayerH. Rameis
Absract:In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of 12 g (piracetam in 2 different formulations were investigated utilizing (blood gas analysis, EEG (mapping (and psychometry under a transient, reversible, hypoxic hypoxidosis. The latter was induced by a fixed gas combination of 9.8% oxygen (O@sub_begin2@sub_end) and 90.2% nitrogen (N@sub_begin2@sub_end, found in 6,000 m altitude), which was inhaled for 23 minutes under normobaric conditions by 18 healthy volunteers. They received after an adaptation session randomized at weekly intervals 12 g (piracetam i.v. (250 ml infusion over 30 minutes), 12 g piracetam p.o. (60 ml sirup) and placebo. Blood levels were determined by means of an HPLC at the hours 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24. The 2 formulations showed a very similar time-course, with slightly higher blood levels in the 1st hour after the intravenous than oral administration, and vice versa thereafter. The elimination half-life was 4.3 hours for both formulations, the area under the curve and the clearance value were also almost identical. Evaluation of blood gases, EEG (mapping (and psychometry were carried out at 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-drug. Blood gas analysis demonstrated a drop in SaO@sub_begin2@sub_end from 99 to 73 and 70%, in PO@sub_begin2@sub_end from 100 to 35 and 33 mmHg, in PCO@sub_begin2@sub_end from 36 to 31 and 31 mmHg (in the 14th and 23rd minute of inhalation, respectively. pH increased from 7.43 to 7.48 and 7.48 in the respective minutes, while base excess and standard bicarbonate remained stable. EEG (mapping (exhibited under hypoxia a marked increase of total power, mostly due to an augmentation of delta/theta, and a decrease of alpha activity, which reflects deterioration of vigilance. Both piracetam preparations significantly attenuated this vigilance decrement, with 12 g (piracetam i.v. showing (its encephalotropic peak effects in the earlier hours, 12 g (piracetam sirup in the later hours. At the behavioral level, hypoxic hypoxidosis induced a deterioration of the noo- and thymopsyche, which was mitigated by both piracetam preparations, mostly in the 6th hour. Both formulations were well tolerated.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00796
Title:Ranking in Vitro Dissolution of Inhaled Micronized Drug Powders including a Candidate Drug with Two Different Particle Sizes
Authors:F. FranekR. FranssonH. ThörnP. BäckmanP.U. AnderssonU. Tehler
Absract:Pulmonary dissolution of poorly soluble drug substances (DSs) may limit the drug absorption rate and consequently influence clinical performance. Dissolution rate is thus an important quality attribute, and its influence on in vivo drug release must be characterized, understood, and controlled early in the development process. The aim of this study is to establish an in vitro dissolution method with the capability to capture therapeutically relevant differences in the dissolution rate between drug batches and drug compounds. A method was developed by which a biorelevant aerosol fraction was captured on a filter using a sedimentation technique in a modified Andersen cascade impactor to avoid particle agglomeration. Subsequently, the filters were transferred to a commercial Transwell system where dissolution in 3 mL of phosphate buffer at pH 6.8 with 0.5% sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) occurred at sink conditions. Dissolved DS was quantified over time using UPLC-UV. Dissolution data was obtained on a series of micronized and aerosolized lipophilic DSs, budesonide, fluticasone furoate (FF), fluticasone propionate (FP), and AZD5423. The latter is a lipophilic AstraZeneca development compound available in two different mass median diameters (MMD), 1.3 (AZD5423@sub_begin1.3@sub_end) and 3.1 μm (AZD5423@sub_begin3.1@sub_end). Dissolution data were evaluated using a Weibull fit and expressed as t@sub_begin63@sub_end, the time to dissolution of 63% of the initial dose. The following rank-order of t@sub_begin63@sub_end was obtained (mean t@sub_begin63@sub_end and MMD in brackets), budesonide (10 min, 2.1 μm) = AZD5423@sub_begin1.3@sub_end (10 min, 1.3 μm) < AZD5423@sub_begin3.1@sub_end (19 min, 3.1 μm) < FP (38 min, 2.4 μm) < FF (63 min, 2.5 μm). The method could differentiate between different drug compounds with different solubility but similar particle size distribution, as well as between the same drug compound with different particle size distributions. Furthermore, a relation between the in vitro dissolution rate (t@sub_begin63@sub_end) and mean pulmonary absorption time in man (literature data) was observed, indicating clinical relevance. It is thus concluded, that the method may be useful for the characterization and ranking of DSs and drug products in early development, as well as being a potential tool for the control of dissolution as a potential quality attribute.

doi:10.1002/ddr.21018
Title:Preclinical toxicology, pharmacology, and efficacy of a novel orally administered diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA) formulation
Authors:J.D. ReddyR.R. CobbN.W. DunganL.L. MatthewsK.V. AielloG. RitterJ.F. KirkJ.A. AbernethyD.M. TomisakaJ.D. Talton
Absract:Accidental or deliberate release of plutonium (Pu) and americium (Am) into the environment could lead to internal contamination by dermal exposure, ingestion, or inhalation and result in severe health risks to the exposed human population. Therefore, it is extremely important to develop chelation or decorporation therapies to remove these actinides from the exposed human population and thereby mitigate the deleterious effects of these actinides. Of the several chelating agents available, administration of intravenous (IV) injection of calcium (Ca) or zinc (Zn) diethylenetriaminepentaacetic (DTPA) immediately after exposure is well known to enhance the excretion of incorporated actinides. However, in emergency situations that require treating a large population, oral administration of either Zn-DTPA or Ca-DTPA would be the simplest treatment. A novel oral formulation of DTPA, NanoDTPA™ capsules was investigated for its toxicological and pharmacological profiles in dogs. No toxicity was observed in the dogs and the no observable adverse effect level was determined to be 350-700 mg NanoDTPA™ per dog or approximately 36.5-72.9 mg/kg NanoDTPA™. In the pharmacokinetic study, DTPA concentration from all dogs that were administered enteric-coated NanoDTPA capsules was observed in the 1.5 and 2 h samples of the 30 and 60 mg/kg dosing arms, respectively. The highest mean DTPA plasma concentration was 3.04 ± 1.10 μg/ml and 4.82 ± 1.76 μg/ml at 3.0 and 2.8 h for the 30 and 60 mg/kg dosing arms, respectively. Additionally, the preliminary decorporation studies in rats exposed to @sup_begin241@sup_end Am at a single dose (1 μCi) demonstrated that the NanoDTPA capsules at 60 mg/kg NanoDTPA were substantially equivalent to IV Zn-DTPA administrated at 15 mg/kg DTPA, which is the highest dose available for the currently licensed product. These results demonstrate that oral NanoDTPA™ capsules are safe and capable of decorporation of actinides. The data from additional GLP studies linked to pharmacokinetic data in humans will be used to establish efficacy for regulatory submissions. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

doi:10.2165/00115677-199906020-00005
Title:Management of patients with cystic fibrosis: Defining the role of inhaled tobramycin
Authors:H.M. LambK.L. Goa
Absract:Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a serious genetically inherited multisystem disease, characterised by symptoms of pancreatic insufficiency, meconium ileus, obstruction/absence of the vas deferens and chronic obstruction. infection and inflammation of the lower respiratory tract. Lung disease, specifically chronic infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, is the principal cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with CF. Patients with CF require a specialised and integrated programme of care. Proper nutrition, airway clearance and antibacterial therapy are the key components of healthcare for these patients. Inhaled antibacterial therapy, which offers the theoretical benefits of high lung concentrations with minimal risk of systemic toxicity, is sometimes used in this patient group. Inhaled tobramycin, colistin (or colistimethate) and β-lactam agents (with or without an aminoglycoside) have all been tested as suppressive antipseudomonal therapy, although they have yet to be compared in clinical trials. Recently, tobramycin solution for inhalation (TOBI®) has been developed in an attempt to improve on the extemporaneons preparations previously used for this purpose. In patients with CF and confirmed P. aeruginosa infection, 3 courses of a 28-day on/28-day off regimen of inhaled tobramycin (TOBI®) significantly improved lung function versus placebo. Patients were permitted to receive other antibiotic treatment as needed. Improvement was sustained for up to 23 months in those who continued the regimen. Inhaled tobramycin also was associated with a 26% reduction in the likelihood of hospitalisation and a 36% reduction in the use of intravenous antipseudomonal antibiotics versus placebo. Although the frequency of bacteria intrinsically resistant to tobramycin did not increase during therapy, fungi (Candida albicans and Aspergillus spp.) were isolated significantly more frequently among tobramycin than placebo recipients. Susceptibility to tobramycin declined steadily among P. aeruginosa during treatment, although the clinical significance of this is difficult to determine. Inhaled tobramycin is generally well tolerated; tinnitus and alteration of the voice occurred in 3 and 13% of patients. respectively. No hearing loss or renal toxicity were reported after 23 months of therapy. Bronchospasm was observed in about 1 in 8 patients. Conclusions: The inhaled formulation of tobramycin is distinguished by a large body of clinical data which should enable clinicians to use the agent appropriately in patients with CF and P. aeruginosa infection. Importantly, for each patient, the risks of hoarseness, fungal coinfection and acquisition cost should be weighed against the benefits of sustained improvement in lung function, reduced hospitalisation, reduced need for parenteral antipseudomonal agents, minimal systemic toxicity and a preservative-free formulation.

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.1c00491
Title:Nanoparticle-Based Drug Delivery System: The Magic Bullet for the Treatment of Chronic Pulmonary Diseases
Authors:S. PramanikS. MohantoR. ManneR.R. RajendranA. DeepakS.J. EdapullyT. PatilO. Katari
Absract:Chronic pulmonary diseases encompass different persistent and lethal diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), cystic fibrosis (CF), asthma, and lung cancers that affect millions of people globally. Traditional pharmacotherapeutic treatment approaches (i.e., bronchodilators, corticosteroids, chemotherapeutics, peptide-based agents, etc.) are not satisfactory to cure or impede diseases. With the advent of nanotechnology, drug delivery to an intended site is still difficult, but the nanoparticle's physicochemical properties can accomplish targeted therapeutic delivery. Based on their surface, size, density, and physical-chemical properties, nanoparticles have demonstrated enhanced pharmacokinetics of actives, achieving the spotlight in the drug delivery research field. In this review, the authors have highlighted different nanoparticle-based therapeutic delivery approaches to treat chronic pulmonary diseases along with the preparation techniques. The authors have remarked the nanosuspension delivery via nebulization and dry powder carrier is further effective in the lung delivery system since the particles released from these systems are innumerable to composite nanoparticles. The authors have also outlined the inhaled particle's toxicity, patented nanoparticle-based pulmonary formulations, and commercial pulmonary drug delivery devices (PDD) in other sections. Recently advanced formulations employing nanoparticles as therapeutic carriers for the efficient treatment of chronic pulmonary diseases are also canvassed.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2012.12.015
Title:Development of a dry, stable and inhalable acyl-homoserine-lactone-acylase powder formulation for the treatment of pulmonary Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections
Authors:M. WahjudiS. MurugappanR. Van MerkerkA.C. EissensM.R. VisserW.L.J. HinrichsW.J. Quax
Absract:In the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, Pseudomonas aeruginosa commonly causes chronic infections. It has been shown that the P. aeruginosa quorum sensing (QS) system controls the expression of virulence factors during invasion and infection to host cells. PvdQ is an acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) acylase able to degrade the signal molecule of P. aeruginosa QS. The role of PvdQ in inhibiting the QS and its successive virulence determinants has been established in in vitro as well as in in vivo, the latter in a Caenorabdhitis elegans model. For the treatment of pulmonary P. aeruginosa infections, we propose that PvdQ can be best administered directly to the lungs of the patients as a dry powder because this is expected to give specific advantages in delivery as compared to nebulizing. Therefore in this study we investigated the production of a PvdQ powder by spray-freeze drying using mannitol, trehalose and inulin as excipient. The activity of PvdQ in the powder was determined immediately after production and after subsequent storage during 4 weeks at 20 °C and 55 °C. We found that the enzymatic activity of PvdQ is fully maintained during spray-freeze drying using mannitol, trehalose or inulin as excipient. However, mannitol was not able to stabilize the protein during storage, while PvdQ incorporated in trehalose or inulin was fully stabilized even during storage at 55 °C for at least 4 weeks. The poor stabilizing capacities of mannitol during storage could be related to its crystalline nature while the excellent stabilizing capacities of trehalose and inulin during storage could be related to their amorphous nature. The trehalose and inulin-based particles consisted of porous spheres with a volume average aerodynamical diameter of ∼1.8 μm implying that they are suitable for pulmonary delivery. This is the first study in which an AHL-degrading enzyme is processed into spray-freeze-dried powder suitable for inhalation. © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/S1081-1206(10)60248-7
Title:A proof-of-concept study to evaluate the antiinflammatory effects of a novel soluble cyclodextrin formulation of nebulized budesonide in patients with mild to moderate asthma
Authors:P.A. WilliamsonD. MenziesA. NairA. TutuncuB.J. Lipworth
Absract:Background: A cyclodextrin solution formulation of budesonide has been developed. Objective: To assess the anti-inflammatory effect of a novel soluble formulation of nebulized budesonide compared with the present suspension formulation based on a 1:4 nominal dose ratio. Methods: Seventeen mild to moderate asthmatic patients were randomized to receive 120 μg of Capsitol-Enabled Budesonide Inhalation Solution (CBIS) twice daily or 500 μg of budesonide suspension (Pulmicort Respules) twice daily via nebulizer for 2 weeks in a crossover manner. Methacholine challenge, fractionated exhaled nitric oxide (NO) measurement, spirometry, and 10-hour overnight urinary creatinine-corrected cortisol measurement were conducted at baseline and after each treatment. Results: Neither CBIS nor Pulmicort significantly improved the provocation concentration of methacholine that caused a decrease in FEV @sub_begin1@sub_end of 10% as change from baseline (doubling dilution changes, 0.82; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.08 to 1.72; P = .08; and 0.86; 95% CI, -0.61 to 2.32; P = .41, respectively). Both CBIS and Pulmicort suppressed exhaled NO from baseline (geometric mean fold ratios: for tidal NO, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.55-0.90; P = .006; and 0.62; 95% CI, 0.50-0.76; P < .001, respectively; for bronchial flux, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.56-0.95; P = .02; and 0.54; 95% CI, 0.39-0.74; P < .001, respectively). Alveolar NO was significantly suppressed by CBIS (geometric mean fold ratio, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.13-0.85; P = .02) but not by Pulmicort (0.66; 95% CI, 0.25-1.76; P = .81). The mean (SEM) nebulization time for CBIS was 84 (3.0) seconds and for Pulmicort was 303 (19) seconds (P < .001). There were no differences between CBIS and Pulmicort for any other outcome. Conclusions: There are no significant differences between formulations for any inflammatory outcome. CBIS has a shorter nebulization time and is given at a quarter of the nominal dose of Pulmicort.

doi:10.1016/j.cct.2007.05.008
Title:Bronchodilation of formoterol administered with budesonide: Device and formulation effects
Authors:C.J. MillerS. SennW.S. Mezzanotte
Absract:Background: Previous single-dose crossover studies have established therapeutic equivalence of formoterol when administered at the same nominal dose via a dry powder inhaler (DPI) or pressurized hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) metered-dose inhaler (pMDI). Demonstration of equivalent bronchodilation for formoterol administered as formoterol DPI or combined with budesonide in one pMDI (budesonide/formoterol pMDI) would indicate that the greater clinical efficacy of the budesonide/formoterol pMDI combination is due to the budesonide contribution and not to differences in formoterol formulation or delivery device. Objective: To determine whether the formoterol-related bronchodilatory effects of formoterol DPI and budesonide/formoterol pMDI are similar, despite formoterol formulation and delivery device differences. Methods: This was a multicenter, open-label, five-period crossover study conducted in 201 adult patients with stable asthma. The study included a screening visit, a 7- to 14-day run-in period, during which patients were treated with budesonide pMDI (80 μg per inhalation, two inhalations twice daily), and a randomized treatment period that included five single-day treatment periods, during which patients received single-dose crossover treatments, each of which was separated by a 3- to 14-day washout period. Patients were randomized to five of seven single-dose treatments (one, two, or four inhalations of budesonide/formoterol pMDI 80/4.5 μg; four inhalations of budesonide pMDI 80 μg plus one, two, or four inhalations of formoterol DPI 4.5 μg; or four inhalations of budesonide pMDI 80 μg alone). At clinic visits, the budesonide pMDI dose was coordinated with the budesonide dose delivered via the budesonide/formoterol pMDI such that all patients received a 320-μg dose of budesonide. The primary variable was average forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) from the area under the curve divided by time from 12-h serial spirometry. Results: Average 12-h FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end values were similar, regardless of delivery device, among treatments with the same nominal formoterol doses and dose-ordered within each device; mean FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end values were significantly higher for treatments containing formoterol versus budesonide alone. The formoterol dose potency ratio for budesonide/formoterol pMDI:formoterol DPI (0.97; 95% confidence interval, 0.73-1.27) demonstrated clinical equivalence in bronchodilation at the same formoterol dose. Conclusion: Budesonide/formoterol pMDI affords equivalent formoterol-related bronchodilatory effects versus formoterol DPI at formoterol doses of 4.5, 9, and 18 μg, indicating that practitioners can expect and patients will experience similar bronchodilation from the same dose of formoterol whether it is delivered as monotherapy via a DPI or as combination therapy with budesonide via one pMDI. © 2007 Elsevier Inc.

doi:10.1034/j.1399-3003.2000.15d07.x
Title:Comparison of the safety of drug delivery via HFA- and CFC-metered dose inhalers in CAO
Authors:G. HuchonP. HofbauerG. CannizzaroP. IaconoF. Wald
Absract:The objective of this study was to compare the long-term safety of a fixed combination of fenoterol hydrobromide (50 μg) and ipratropium bromide (20 μg) delivered using a metered dose inhaler (MDI) formulated with a non- chlorinated propellant, hydrofluoroalkane134a (HFA-MDI), with delivery using the conventional chlorofluorocarbon propellant (CFC-MDI, Berodual®/Bronchodual®). The study was designed according to Safety Assessment of Marketed Medicines (SAMM) guidelines, to reflect as far as possible the use of MDIs under normal prescribing conditions. Two thousand and twenty-seven patients with chronic airways obstruction (CAO) were enrolled from 99 centres in France, 95 centres in Germany and 24 centres in Italy. Following a 2-week run-in period, patients were randomized on a 2:1 basis (1,348 patients to HFA-MDI, 679 patients to CFC-MDI) to receive a flexible dose regimen of the combination (2 puffs, 2-4 times a day, as prescribed by the investigator) during a 12-week open label phase. The overall incidence of adverse events was comparable between both groups. In addition, the incidence of respiratory side effects was also similar, with CAO exacerbations or bronchitis the most frequently recorded events. The safety profile of the HFA formulation was comparable to those of the marketed CFC-MDIs used in Germany and France/Italy. No clinically significant differences were detected between HFA134a or CFC driven inhalers on the switch from CFC- to HFA-MDI (2 weeks before randomisation versus 2 weeks after randomization). There was a trend for taste complaints to be reported more frequently by patients in the HFA-MDI group (0.7% before randomization versus 3.4% after randomization). This, however, was an expected finding as the HFA134a formulation does have a different taste to the CFC formulation. No difference between formulations was observed in the incidences of coughing or paradoxical bronchospasm. The incidence of falls in FEV1 >15% within 15 min following inhalation at each of the clinic visits was 1.2% for both CFC- and HFA-MDIs. In conclusion, administration of a fenoterol/ipratropium bromide combination via hydrofluoroalkane-metered dose inhaler is as safe as delivery by the currently available chlorofluorocarbon-metered dose inhaler, in an extended population of patients with CAO under normal prescribing conditions. (C) ERS Journals Ltd 2000.

doi:10.1016/s0091-6749(99)70043-6
Title:Comparative effects of hydrofluoroalkane and chlorofluorocarbon beclomethasone dipropionate inhalation on small airways: Assessment with functional helical thin-section computed tomography
Authors:J.G. GoldinD.P. TashkinE.C. KleerupL.E. GreaserU.M. HaywoodJ.W. SayreM.D. SimmonsM. SuttorpG.L. ColiceJ.A. Vanden BurgtD.R. Aberle
Absract:A double-blind, randomized, parallel-group pilot study compared the relative efficacy of hydrofluoroalkane-134a beclomethasone dipropionate (HFA- BDP [QVAR]; mass median aerodynamic diameter, 0.8-1.2 m) versus cholorofluorocarbon-11/12 BDP (CFC-BDP [Beclovent]; mass median aerodynamic diameter, 3.5-4.0 m) in 31 steroid naive patients with mild to moderate asthma (PC@sub_begin20@sub_end, 4 mg/mL). Functional high-resolution computed tomography was used to assess the relative efficacy of HFA-BDP and CFC-BDP on regional air trapping, as an indirect measure of small airways function and on regional hyperreactivity. Pretreatment functional computed tomography was performed at residual volume before and after methacholine challenge. After 4 weeks of treatment, functional imaging was repeated before and after the same concentration of methacholine that was administered before the treatment (n = 19 patients). Quantitative assessment of changes in distribution of lung attenuation was performed. After 4 weeks of treatment, the HFA-BDP group showed significantly more improvement in air trapping overall (a swift in the lung attenuation curve at residual volume toward more attenuation) on the posttreatment computed tomography scan (P < .05; Fisher's Exact Test). After an equal constrictor stimulus (methacholine concentration), subjects treated with HFA-BDP (n = 10 patients) showed less increase in air trapping overall than subjects treated with CFC-BDP (n = 9 patients) on the posttreatment scans compared with the pretreatment scans (P < .001; Fisher's Exact Test). No significant difference was demonstrated between the 2 treatment groups with respect to improvement in symptoms, spirometry, or methacholine responsiveness assessed by FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, except for a greater reduction in breathlessness in the HFA-BDP group (P < .05). We conclude that HFA-BDP may have greater efficacy in the peripheral airways and that this effect is better assessed with functional imaging computed tomography techniques than with conventional physiologic tests.

doi:10.1186/s12931-020-01585-9
Title:Aerosol drug delivery to spontaneously-breathing preterm neonates: lessons learned
Authors:F. BiancoF. SalomoneI. MilesiX. MurgiaS. BonelliE. PasiniR. DellacàM.L. VenturaJ. Pillow
Absract:Delivery of medications to preterm neonates receiving non-invasive ventilation (NIV) represents one of the most challenging scenarios for aerosol medicine. This challenge is highlighted by the undersized anatomy and the complex (patho)physiological characteristics of the lungs in such infants. Key physiological restraints include low lung volumes, low compliance, and irregular respiratory rates, which significantly reduce lung deposition. Such factors are inherent to premature birth and thus can be regarded to as the intrinsic factors that affect lung deposition. However, there are a number of extrinsic factors that also impact lung deposition: such factors include the choice of aerosol generator and its configuration within the ventilation circuit, the drug formulation, the aerosol particle size distribution, the choice of NIV type, and the patient interface between the delivery system and the patient. Together, these extrinsic factors provide an opportunity to optimize the lung deposition of therapeutic aerosols and, ultimately, the efficacy of the therapy. In this review, we first provide a comprehensive characterization of both the intrinsic and extrinsic factors affecting lung deposition in premature infants, followed by a revision of the clinical attempts to deliver therapeutic aerosols to premature neonates during NIV, which are almost exclusively related to the non-invasive delivery of surfactant aerosols. In this review, we provide clues to the interpretation of existing experimental and clinical data on neonatal aerosol delivery and we also describe a frame of measurable variables and available tools, including in vitro and in vivo models, that should be considered when developing a drug for inhalation in this important but under-served patient population.

doi:10.1021/mp500456k
Title:Peptide-coated liposomal fasudil enhances site specific vasodilation in pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:K. NaharS. AbsarN. GuptaV.R. KotamrajuI.F. McMurtryM. OkaM. KomatsuE. Nozik-GrayckF. Ahsan
Absract:This study sought to develop a liposomal delivery system of fasudil-an investigational drug for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)-that will preferentially accumulate in the PAH lungs. Liposomal fasudil was prepared by film-hydration method, and the drug was encapsulated by active loading. The liposome surface was coated with a targeting moiety, CARSKNKDC, a cyclic peptide; the liposomes were characterized for size, polydispersity index, zeta potential, and storage and nebulization stability. The in vitro drug release profiles and uptake by TGF-β activated pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMC) and alveolar macrophages were evaluated. The pharmacokinetics were monitored in male Sprague-Dawley rats, and the pulmonary hemodynamics were studied in acute and chronic PAH rats. The size, polydispersity index (PDI), and zeta potential of the liposomes were 206-216 nm, 0.058-0.084, and -20-42.7 mV, respectively. The formulations showed minimal changes in structural integrity when nebulized with a commercial microsprayer. The optimized formulation was stable for >4 weeks when stored at 4 °C. Fasudil was released in a continuous fashion over 120 h with a cumulative release of 76%. Peptide-linked liposomes were taken up at a higher degree by TGF-β activated PASMCs; but alveolar macrophages could not engulf peptide-coated liposomes. The formulations did not injure the lungs; the half-life of liposomal fasudil was 34-fold higher than that of plain fasudil after intravenous administration. Peptide-linked liposomal fasudil, as opposed to plain liposomes, reduced the mean pulmonary arterial pressure by 35-40%, without influencing the mean systemic arterial pressure. This study establishes that CAR-conjugated inhalable liposomal fasudil offers favorable pharmacokinetics and produces pulmonary vasculature specific dilatation.

doi:10.1016/j.beem.2007.07.004
Title:Inhaled insulin
Authors:S. ArnoldsT. Heise
Absract:Inhaled insulin has attractive pharmacodynamic properties with a fast onset of action which should lead to improved postprandial blood glucose concentrations. Comparisons with regular subcutaneous (sc) insulin in clinical studies, however, showed lower fasting blood glucose concentrations. Overall, clinical efficacy of inhaled insulin was comparable to that of regular sc insulin. Treatment with inhaled insulin was safe and well tolerated, with slight and reversible changes in lung function parameters and a rise in insulin antibodies (not associated with any clinical or safety parameters) as main adverse effects. Treatment satisfaction in open-label studies was higher with inhaled than with sc insulin, indicating that inhaled insulin might help to overcome one of the major hurdles of diabetes therapy, i.e. a timely initiation of insulin therapy. The first inhaled insulin formulation was approved in the US and Europe in January 2006, but some countries granted reimbursement only for selected patients, or did not reimburse treatment with inhaled insulin at all because of the high treatment costs. These are due to the rather low bioavailability of approximately 8-15%. Therefore, further research is needed to improve the bioavailability of inhaled insulin: e.g. through optimization of the inhaler, the insulin formulation, or the inhalation technique. In view of the potential for further improvement, inhaled insulin may become a very attractive alternative to sc insulin, in particular in patients in whom insulin therapy has to be initiated and/or intensified. © 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2006.08.014
Title:Conformational analysis of protein secondary structure during spray-drying of antibody/mannitol formulations
Authors:S. SchüleW. FrießK. Bechtold-PetersP. Garidel
Absract:Inhalation of spray-dried particles is a promising delivery route for proteins as an alternative to injection. Changes in the protein structure and aggregation have to be avoided. The effect of mannitol, a stabilizing agent typically used in both liquid and lyophilized protein formulations, on an antibody (IgG1) in a spray-dried powder was studied using different biophysical and chromatographic techniques. At first, different solutions composed of antibody (IgG1) and mannitol at a ratio between 20/80 and 100/0 IgG1/mannitol (100 mg/ml total solid) were investigated for their stability. Protein solutions containing the IgG1 showed mannitol-dependent aggregation. High amounts of mannitol (50-80%) exerted a destabilizing effect on the antibody and the aggregate 9level increased to 2.6-4.2%. In contrast, solutions with only 20-40% mannitol showed the same amount of aggregates as the pure antibody solution. The antibody mannitol solutions were investigated by circular dichroism (CD) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) to evaluate whether changes in the protein secondary structure can be correlated with aggregation. Considering the sensitivity of the used methods and data evaluation, FTIR spectra did not reveal structural changes in the IgG1/mannitol solutions compared to the pure antibody, despite varying aggregate levels. Thermal stress was reflected in perturbations of the secondary structure, but mannitol-dependent aggregation could not be correlated to detectable alterations in the FTIR spectra. Analyzing the CD spectra revealed no distinctive change in the shape of the CD curve, indicating that the protein secondary structure is mainly retained. This is in agreement with the infrared data. Subsequently, the IgG1/mannitol solutions were spray-dried at T@sub_beginin@sub_end/T@sub_beginout@sub_end of 90/50 °C. Using ATR-FTIR for the investigation of the protein amide I band in the spray-dried powder revealed changes in the sub-components of the amide I band. This indicates that the peptide groups (C{double bond, long}O and N{single bond}H) of the protein are found in a different environment in the solid state, compared to the liquid protein formulation. After redissolution of the powders, the native structure of the pure antibody solution was found identical to the protein secondary structure before spray-drying, indicating that the protein secondary structure is not strongly altered in the dry state, and not affected by the spray-drying process. Thus, from the presented study it can be concluded that the formation of antibody aggregates in mannitol formulations cannot be correlated with significant perturbations of the protein secondary structure elements. © 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2021.04.148
Title:Heparin: A simplistic repurposing to prevent SARS-CoV-2 transmission in light of its in-vitro nanomolar efficacy
Authors:Y. GuptaD. MaciorowskiS.E. ZakC.V. KulkarniA.S. HerbertR. DurvasulaJ. FareedJ.M. DyeP. Kempaiah
Absract:The world is currently facing a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic. The greatest threat that is disrupting the normal functioning of society is the exceptionally high species independent transmission. Drug repurposing is understood to be the best strategy to immediately deploy well-characterized agents against new pathogens. Several repurposable drugs are already in evaluation for determining suitability to treat COVID-19. One such promising compound includes heparin, which is widely used in reducing thrombotic events associated with COVID-19 induced pathology. As part of identifying target-specific antiviral compounds among FDA and world-approved libraries using high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS), we previously evaluated top hits for anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity. Here, we report results of highly efficacious viral entry blocking properties of heparin (IC@sub_begin50@sub_end = 12.3 nM) in the complete virus assay, and further, propose ways to use it as a potential transmission blocker. Exploring further, our in-silico analysis indicated that the heparin interacts with post-translational glycoconjugates present on spike proteins. The patterns of accessible spike-glycoconjugates in open and closed states are completely contrasted by one another. Heparin-binding to the open conformation of spike structurally supports the state and may aid ACE2 binding as reported with cell surface-bound heparan sulfate. We also studied spike protein mutant variants' heparin interactions for possible resistance. Based on available data and optimal absorption properties by the skin, heparin could potentially be used to block SARS-CoV-2 transmission. Studies should be designed to exploit its nanomolar antiviral activity to formulate heparin as topical or inhalation-based formulations, particularly on exposed areas and sites of primary viremia e.g. ACE2 rich epithelia of the eye (conjunctiva/lids), nasal cavity, and mouth.

doi:10.2174/2468187308666180307152049
Title:Inhalable nanostructures for lung cancer treatment: Progress and challenges
Authors:A. SinghS. BhatiaV. Rana
Absract:Background: Worldwide, lung cancer is the major cause of deaths due to cancer. Most of the lung cancer cases are categorized as 85% cases of non-small cell lung cancer, while remainder 15% cases are known as small cell lung cancer. The long survival time as well as the improved quality of life for patients undergoing lung cancer using conventional chemotherapy is still not satisfactory. Therefore, robust research undergoes development of drug delivery system which increased drug at target side with reduced systemic side effect. Method: Bibliography database reviewed various inhalable nanostructured drug delivery strategies for effective delivery of anticancer drugs to lung cancer which are designed to improve the therapeutic index of anticancer drugs throughout improvement of their stability as well as bioavailability. Results: It has been reported that nanostructure based inhalation chemotherapy is more successful targeting system and also offers reduced side effects than conventional chemotherapy. Conclusion: Thus, the review highlights the critical issues, strategies for delivery and provides detail on various inhalable nanostructures for anticancer drug delivery along with toxicity concerns as well as rationale behind development of inhalable nanostructures.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2017.07.030
Title:The interaction of dendrimer-doxorubicin conjugates with a model pulmonary epithelium and their cosolvent-free, pseudo-solution formulations in pressurized metered-dose inhalers
Authors:Q. ZhongB.V. HumiaA.R. PunjabiF.F. PadilhaS.R.P. da Rocha
Absract:Oral inhalation (OI) of nano-chemotherapeutics holds great potentials in the treatment of lung cancers as it enables direct targeting of drugs to lung tissues, spatial and temporal control of drug release, and decrease in drug-associated systemic and local lung toxicity. Therefore, the design of chemistry of the nanocarriers and their OI formulations for chemotherapeutics delivery to the peripheral lungs and extrapulmonary tissues of relevance such as lymph nodes, may thus afford new opportunities for treating such relevant diseases. In this work we investigated the effect of polyethylene glycol 1000 Da (PEG1000) density and doxorubicin (DOX) payload on the interaction of poly(amidoamine) dendrimer (PAMAM) with an in vitro pulmonary epithelium model (Calu-3). DOX, which was conjugated to the PAMAM through a pH-labile bond, showed a strong time-dependent cell kill against Calu-3 cells due to sustained DOX release. The conjugation of DOX to PEGylated PAMAM dendrimers significantly enhances DOX transport across pulmonary epithelium compared to free drug, with the rate of transport increasing as PEGylation degree increases. Transient interaction of PEGylated dendrimers with cellular junctions of the polarized epithelium as probed by a reduction in transepithelial electrical resistance, faster mucus diffusion, along with reduced cellular internalization compared to the non-PEGylated counterpart promotes transport across the epithelial barrier. A cosolvent free method was developed to formulate PEGylated PAMAM-DOX conjugates in pressurized metered-dose inhalers. The resulting aerosol formulations show a very high final particle fractions (> 82%). We further demonstrate that aerodynamic particle size distribution of the nanoconjugates can be tweaked with the addition of a biodegradable lactide-based copolymer, which may help tune lung deposition of PAMAM-DOX conjugates to a specific pulmonary area. The combined results suggest that conjugation to PAMAM dendrimers and their surface modification with PEG1000 can be utilized to modulate the transport of DOX across pulmonary epithelium, and also to easily formulate the conjugates in propellant-based inhalers for pulmonary administration of anticancer therapeutics.

doi:10.1016/j.ejps.2016.08.024
Title:Pulmonary pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin in rats after aerosolization of immediate-release chitosan or sustained-release PLGA microspheres
Authors:M.C. GasparN. GrégoireJ.J.S. SousaA.A.C.C. PaisI. LamarcheP. GobinJ.-C. OlivierS. MarchandW. Couet
Absract:A comparative pharmacokinetic study was conducted in rats after intratracheal aerosolization of levofloxacin, as a solution, as immediate-release chitosan microspheres or as sustained-release PLGA microspheres. A pharmacokinetic model was constructed to model levofloxacin concentrations both in plasma and in the lung epithelial lining fluid (ELF). The plasma and ELF experimental concentration profiles versus time were similar for the intravenous and intratracheal levofloxacin solutions and for the intratracheal levofloxacin-loaded chitosan microsphere dry powder, indicating that levofloxacin diffused almost instantaneously through the broncho-alveolar barrier and that the chitosan microspheres released levofloxacin very rapidly, as anticipated from in vitro release studies. The bioavailability for the intratracheal levofloxacin solution and intratracheal chitosan microspheres was estimated to be 98% and 71%, respectively, both with a direct release into the ELF compartment. The ELF-to-unbound plasma AUC ratios were slightly above 2 and may result from an efflux transport. For the intratracheal PLGA microspheres, a high ELF-to-unbound plasma AUC concentration ratio (311) was observed and high levofloxacin concentrations were maintained in ELF for at least 72 h in consistency with the in vitro release studies. The bioavailability was 92%, with 19% of the dose released immediately (burst release) into the ELF and 73% released slowly into the ELF from a depot compartment, i.e. the PLGA microspheres, according to a Weibull model. These results highlight the benefit of using sustained-release microspheres administered as aerosols to provide and to maintain high pulmonary concentrations of an antibiotic characterized with a high permeability profile through the broncho-alveolar barrier. The sustained-release microsphere dry powder aerosol may therefore provide advantages over solutions or pure drug dry powders for inhalation in terms of treatment efficiency, ease of use and frequency of administration.

doi:10.1002/bdd.702
Title:Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of controlled release insulin loaded PLGA microcapsules using dry powder inhaler in diabetic rats
Authors:H. HamishehkarJ. EmamiA.R. NajafabadiK. GilaniM. MinaiyanK. HassanzadehH. MahdaviM. KoohsoltaniA. Nokhodchig
Absract:The pulmonary route is an alternative route of administration for the systemic delivery of peptide and proteins with short-half lives. A long-acting formulation of insulin was prepared by encapsulation of protein into respirable, biodegradable microcapsules prepared by an oil in oil emulsification/solvent evaporation method. Insulin-loaded PLGA microcapsules prepared as a dry powder inhaler formulation were administered via the pulmonary route to diabetic rats and serum insulin and glucose concentrations were monitored. Control treatments consisted of respirable spray-dried insulin (RSDI) powder administered by intratracheal insufflation, insulin-loaded PLGA microcapsules and NPH (long-acting) insulin administered by subcutaneous (SC) administration. Pharmacokinetic analysis demonstrated that insulin administered in PLGA microcapsules illustrated a sustained release profile which resulted in a longer mean residence time, 4 and 5 fold longer than those after pulmonary administration of RSDI and SC injection of NPH insulin, respectively. Accordingly, the hypoglycemic profile followed a stable and sustained pattern which remained constant between 10 and 48 h. Results of the in vitro experiments were in good agreement with those of in vivo studies. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid analysis indicated that microcapsules administration did not increase the activities of lactate dehydrogenase and total protein. However, histological examination of the lung tissue indicated a minor but detectable effect on the normal physiology of the rat lung. These findings suggest that the encapsulation of peptides and proteins into PLGA microcapsules technique could be a promising controlled delivery system for pulmonary administration. Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

doi:10.1067/mai.2003.1450
Title:Biochemical and clinical evidence that aspirin-intolerant asthmatic subjects tolerate the cyclooxygenase 2-selective analgetic drug celecoxib
Authors:P. GyllforsG. BochenekJ. OverholtD. DrupkaM. KumlinJ. ShellerE. NizankowskaP.C. IsaksonF. MejzaJ.B. LefkowithS.-E. DahlénA. SzczeklikJ.J. MurrayB. Dahlén
Absract:Background: Subjects with aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) respond with bronchoconstriction and extrapulmonary adverse reactions to conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that inhibit the cyclooxygenase (COX) step in the biosynthesis of prostaglandins. Recently, 2 isotypes of COX have been identified, and COX-2-selective NSAIDs have been developed for treatment of inflammatory disorders. Objective: We investigated whether 33 subjects with a typical history of AIA tolerated the new COX-2-selective NSAID celecoxib. Methods: All subjects displayed current aspirin sensitivity in oral or inhalation challenge tests. The subjects first underwent a double-blind, randomized, cross-over, increasing-dose challenge with placebo or celecoxib (10, 30, or 100 mg in suspension) on 2 occasions 7 days apart. Thereafter, all subjects were exposed to 400 mg of celecoxib administered during an open challenge session as two 200-mg doses 2 hours apart. Lung function, clinical symptoms, and urinary excretion of leukotriene E@sub_begin4@sub_end (LTE@sub_begin4@sub_end) were monitored, with the latter being a sensitive biochemical marker of aspirin intolerance. Results: There were no changes in lung function or extrapulmonary symptoms during the double-blind sessions or in urinary excretion of LTE@sub_begin4@sub_end. Also, the highest recommended daily dose of celecoxib was well tolerated, with no symptoms, lung function changes, or alterations in urinary LTE@sub_begin4@sub_end levels. Conclusions: A group of subjects with clinically well-documented AIA tolerated acute challenge with the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib. The findings indicate that the intolerance reaction in AIA is due to inhibition of COX-1. Large long-term studies of COX-2 inhibitors in AIA should be undertaken.

doi:10.2174/1567201817666200810111726
Title:The impact of natural and synthetic polymers in formulating micro and nanoparticles for anti-diabetic drugs
Authors:N. Al-HashimiM. BabenkoM. SaaedN. KargarA. Elshaer
Absract:Diabetes mellitus is one of the long-known chronic diseases. Today, over 400 million people have been diagnosed with diabetes, yet curing it is still a challenge. Over the decades, the approaches of treating diabetes mellitus have evolved and polymeric materials have played an integral part in developing and manufacturing anti-diabetic medications. However, injection of insulin remains a conventional therapy for the treatment of diabetes. Oral administration is generally the most preferred route; yet, physiological barriers lead to a challenge in the formulation development for oral delivery of antidiabetic peptide and protein drugs. This present review focuses on the role of different types of biodegradable polymers (e.g., synthetic and natural) that have been used to develop micro and nanoparticles based formulations for anti-diabetic drugs (Type 1 and Type 2) and how the various encapsulation strategies impact its therapeutic effect, including pharmacokinetics studies, drug release profiles, and efficacy of the encapsulated drugs. This review also includes studies of different dosage forms such as oral, nasal, inhalation, and sublingual for the treatment of diabetes that have been investigated using synthetic and natural biodegradable polymers in order to develop an alternative route to subcutaneous route for better control of serum glucose levels.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics11070345
Title:Comparison of oral, intranasal and aerosol administration of amiodarone in rats as a model of pulmonary phospholipidosis
Authors:A. PatelE. HoffmanD. BallJ. KlapwijkR.T. StevenA. DexterJ. BunchD. BakerD. MurnaneV. HutterC. PageL.A. DaileyB. Forbes
Absract:‘Foamy’ alveolar macrophages (FAM) observed in nonclinical toxicology studies during inhaled drug development may indicate drug-induced phospholipidosis, but can also derive from adaptive non-adverse mechanisms. Orally administered amiodarone is currently used as a model of pulmonary phospholipidosis and it was hypothesized that aerosol administration would produce phospholipidosis-induced FAM that could be characterized and used in comparative inhalation toxicology. Han-Wistar rats were given amiodarone via (1) intranasal administration (6.25 mg/kg) on two days, (2) aerosol administration (3 mg/kg) on two days, (3) aerosol administration (10 mg/kg) followed by three days of 30 mg/kg or (4) oral administration (100 mg/kg) for 7 days. Alveolar macrophages in bronchoalveolar lavage were evaluated by di_erential cell counting and high content fluorescence imaging. Histopathology and mass-spectrometry imaging (MSI) were performed on lung slices. The higher dose aerosolised amiodarone caused transient pulmonary inflammation (p < 0.05), but only oral amiodarone resulted in FAM (p < 0.001). MSI of the lungs of orally treated rats revealed a homogenous distribution of amiodarone and a putative phospholipidosis marker, di-22:6 bis-monoacylglycerol, throughout lung tissue whereas aerosol administration resulted in localization of both compounds around the airway lumen. Thus, unlike oral administration, aerosolised amiodarone failed to produce the expected FAM responses.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.07.010
Title:Composite particle formulations of colistin and meropenem with improved in-vitro bacterial killing and aerosolization for inhalation
Authors:S. MangalH. ParkL. ZengH.H. YuY.-W. LinT. VelkovJ.A. DenmanD. ZemlyanovJ. LiQ.T. Zhou
Absract:Antibiotic combination therapy is promising for the treatment of lower respiratory tract infections caused by multi-drug resistant Gram-negative pathogens. Inhaled antibiotic therapy offers the advantage of direct delivery of the drugs to the site of infection, as compared to the parenteral administrations. In this study, we developed composite particle formulations of colistin and meropenem. The formulations were characterized for particle size, morphology, specific surface area, surface chemical composition, in-vitro aerosolization performance and in-vitro antibacterial activity. The combinations demonstrated enhanced antibacterial activity against clinical isolates of Acinetobacter baumannii N16870 and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 19147, when compared with antibiotic monotherapy. Spray-dried meropenem alone showed a poor aerosolization performance as indicated by a low fine particle fraction (FPF) of 32.5 ± 3.3%. Co-spraying with colistin improved the aerosolization of meropenem with up to a two-fold increase in the FPF. Such improvements in aerosolization can be attributed to the enrichment of colistin on the surface of composite particles as indicated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS), and the increases in particle porosity. Intermolecular interactions between colistin and meropenem were observed for the combination formulations as measured by FT-IR. In conclusion, our results show that co-spray drying with colistin improves the antibacterial activity and aerosol performance of meropenem and produces a formulation with synergistic bacterial killing.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2011.09.010
Title:Effect of carrier particle shape on dry powder inhaler performance
Authors:W. KaialyA. AlhalawehS.P. VelagaA. Nokhodchi
Absract:The aim of this study was to characterise the aerosolisation properties of salbutamol sulphate (SS) from dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations containing different carrier products. The difference in the elongation ratio (ER) of the different carriers was highlighted. Different set of carriers, namely commercial mannitol (CM), commercial lactose (CL), cooling crystallised mannitol (CCM), acetone crystallised mannitol (ACM) and ethanol crystallised mannitol (ECM) were used and inspected in terms of size, shape, density, crystal form, flowability, and in vitro aerosolisation performance using Multi Stage Liquid Impinger (MSLI) and Aerolizer@sup_begin®@sup_end inhaler device. Solid-state and morphological characterization showed that CM product was in pure β-form having particles with smaller ER (CM: ER = 1.62 ± 0.04) whereas ACM and ECM mannitol particles were in pure α form with higher ER (ACM: ER = 4.83 ± 0.18, ECM: ER = 5.89 ± 0.19). CCM product crystallised as mixtures of β-form and δ-form and showed the largest variability in terms of particle shape, size, and DPI performance. Linear relationships were established showing that carrier products with higher ER have smaller bulk density (D@sub_beginb@sub_end), smaller tap density (D@sub_begint@sub_end), higher porosity (P), and poorer flow properties. In vitro aerosolisation assessments showed that the higher the ER of the carrier particles the greater the amounts of SS delivered to lower airway regions indicating enhanced DPI performance. Yet, DPI performance enhancement by increasing carrier ER reached a "limit" as increasing carrier ER from 4.83 ± 0.18 (ACM) to 5.89 ± 0.19 (ECM) did not significantly alter fine particle fraction (FPF) of SS. Also, carrier particles with higher ER were disadvantageous in terms of higher amounts of SS remained in inhaler device (drug loss) and deposited on throat. Linear relationship was established (r@sup_begin2@sup_end = 0.87) showing that the higher the carrier ER the lower the drug emission (EM) upon inhalation. Moreover, poorer flowability for carrier products with higher ER is disadvantageous in terms of DPI formulation dose metering and processing on handling scale. In conclusion, despite that using carrier particles with higher ER can considerably increase the amounts of drug delivered to lower airway regions; this enhancement is restricted to certain point. Also, other limitations should be taken into account including higher drug loss and poorer flowability. © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.actatropica.2020.105620
Title:Essential oil based controlled-release non-toxic evaporating tablet provides effective repellency against Musca domestica
Authors:H. HazarikaV. TyagiH. KrishnatreyyaJ. IslamD. BoruahS. KishorP. ChattopadhyayK. Zaman
Absract:Housefly, Musca (M) domestica L. (Diptera: Muscidae) is a pervasive insect that transmits a variety of pathogens to humans and livestock. Although numerous synthetic pesticides are available to combat houseflies, their ecological and toxicological concerns have led to the exploration of natural products as safer alternatives. The present work was designed to develop an essential oil based controlled-release evaporating tablet (EO-CRT) and investigate its repellency against M. domestica. This study assesses the toxicological impacts of the EO-CRT following its sub-chronic inhalation exposure. Briefly, repellent activity of fourteen essential oils viz. lemon grass, bergamot, mentha, basil, camphor, lavender, clove, patchouli, rosemary, cinnamon, eucalyptus, citronella, jasmine and wild turmeric against M. domestica were screened using the ‘Y’-tube olfactometer. The synergistic activity of the best four oils, under preliminary screening, were further evaluated by double and triple blending. The best combination of three oils were finalized for optimization with 17-run, 3-factor, 3-level Box-Behnken design. This was then employed to construct polynomial models and predict the best optimized formulation EO-CRT. EO-CRT was characterized by Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy (GC-MS). The efficacy of the EO-CRT against M. domestica was assessed by attraction and repellent assay. Chest X-ray, histopathology and scanning electron microscopy of the exposed lung was performed to study EO-CRT's sub-chronic toxicity on Wistar rats. The EO-CRT showed slow release up to a period of 10 days at room temperature, exhibited 100% repellency (%Error=1.237) against M. domestica and was found to possess all the characteristics of an ideal formulation. Sub-chronic toxicity study further revealed the non-toxic nature of the EO-CRT. Thus, our study provides an assurance that the formulated EO-CRT could be effective not only in repelling the nuisance pest, M. domestica, in human dwellings, but also in minimizing the mechanical transmission of pathogens by it.

doi:10.1517/13543784.15.1.71
Title:Rubitecan
Authors:J.W. Clark
Absract:The only approved camptothecins for use in patients to date (topotecan and irinotecan) are delivered intravenously. Thus, an oral camptothecin analogue that would provide the convenience of oral delivery with the flexibility for a variety of prolonged treatment schedules would be advantageous. Rubitecan is an orally available camptothecin analogue that also has potential for delivery transdermally or by inhalation. Like all of the camptothecins, its anti-tumour activity is mediated through the inhibition of DNA topoisomerase I, which is involved in relaxing supercoiled DNA, which is important for the process of DNA replication and RNA transcription. Rubitecan exists in equilibrium as 9-nitro-camptothecin (9-NC) and 9-amino-camptothecin (9-AC), a metabolite that is thought to be active although it failed in clinical trials. Both 9-NC and 9-AC contain a lactone ring that is required for optimal activity with the carboxylic acid (open ring) forms being significantly less active or inactive. A more acidic environment favours the lactone ring structure, whereas neutral or basic conditions favour the conversion to the carboxylic acid form. In addition to issues of lactone ring stability at physiological pH (true for all of the camptothecin analogues), there is pharmacokinetic variability that has had to be dealt with during the development of rubitecan. Preclinically, rubitecan has shown activity against a broad spectrum of tumour types in in vitro and in vivo human tumour xenograft models. Frustratingly, the level of activity of an agent in preclinical models has not always translated into similar activity against human tumours in clinical trials. To date, with the exception of pancreatic and possibly ovarian cancer, rubitecan has had disappointing activity against a number of other solid tumours in relatively small Phase 1/11 trials; however, it has shown sufficient activity against pancreatic cancer, a malignancy that remains difficult to treat, to continue to be evaluated in clinical trials for this indication. Results of clinical trials in the next few years should determine whether rubitecan can find a role in cancer therapy. © 2006 Ashley Publications.

pui:622967170
Title:Randomized phase 3 trial of amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) for treatment-refractory nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) lung disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in adult patients
Authors:D.E. GriffithG. EagleR.M. ThomsonT.R. AksamitN. HasegawaK. MorimotoD.J. Addrizzo-HarrisA.E. O'DonnellT.K. MarrasP.A. FlumeM.R. LoebingerL.C. MorganP.F. CastellottiA.T. HillS.J. RuossJ.J. YimF.C. RingshausenS.K. FieldJ. NezamisK.L. Winthrop
Absract:Introduction NTM lung disease caused by MAC is a progressively destructive and potentially lifethreatening disease associated with symptoms of cough, fatigue, and hemoptysis. It often complicates chronic underlying conditions such as bronchiectasis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The primary microbiological treatment goal is sputum culture conversion to negative. Patients with MAC lung disease who are treatment-refractory despite guideline-based therapy (GBT) have limited options. Amikacin is an effective concentrationdependent antibiotic against most NTM species. ALIS is a liposome-encapsulated formulation of amikacin designed to deliver amikacin directly to the lungs and facilitate macrophage uptake while limiting systemic exposure. This randomized, open-label phase 3 study assessed the efficacy of adding ALIS to GBT in adult patients with treatment-refractory MAC lung disease. Methods Eligible patients were aged ≥18 years with MAC lung disease confirmed radiographically (plain radiography or CT), and MAC-positive sputum cultures despite ≥6 months of GBT (cystic fibrosis excluded). Patients were randomly assigned (2:1) to receive ALIS with GBT (ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT) or GBT-alone. Once-daily inhalation of ALIS using the PARI eFlow nebulizer delivered an amikacin dose of 590 mg. The primary endpoint was culture conversion, defined as 3 consecutive monthly MAC-negative sputum cultures by Month 6. Results Enrolled patients (ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT, n=224; GBT-alone, n=112) were a median 66.0 years old, 69.3% female, and 69.9% white. Most had bronchiectasis (62.5%) or COPD (14.3%); 11.9% had both. Culture conversion by Month 6 was achieved by 65/224 (29.0%) patients with ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT vs 10/112 (8.9%) with GBT-alone (OR 4.22, 95% CI 2.08-8.57, P<0.0001 [ITT population]). Moreover, among converters, conversion was achieved sooner with ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT than with GBT-alone (mean 2.7 vs 3.5 months; P<0.0001). Similar proportions of patients receiving ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT (98.2%) and GBT-alone (91.1%) reported treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). Respiratory TEAEs were common (87.4% with ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT; 50.0% with GBT-alone) and mostly of mild to moderate severity. Serious TEAEs occurred in 20.2% (ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT) and 17.9% (GBT-alone) of patients, with no safety concerns related to nephrotoxicity. Similar hearing loss was reported in both arms (ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT, 4.5% vs GBT-alone, 6.25%). TEAEs leading to death were reported in 2.7% (ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT) and 4.5% (GBTalone). Conclusions The addition of ALIS to GBT for treatment-refractory NTM lung disease caused by MAC achieved significantly greater culture conversion by Month 6 vs GBT-alone. Culture conversion was achieved sooner with ALIS@sup_begin+@sup_endGBT. ALIS exhibited a generally favorable safety profile, with a low propensity for serious AEs. (Figure presented) .

doi:10.1089/jamp.2009.0803
Title:Demonstrating bioequivalence of locally acting orally inhaled drug products (OIPs): Workshop summary report
Authors:W.P. AdamsR.C. AhrensM.-L. ChenD. ChristopherB.A. ChowdhuryD.P. ConnerR. DalbyK. FitzgeraldL. HendelesA.J. HickeyG. HochhausB.L. LaubeP. LucasS.L. LeeS. LyapustinaB. LiD. O'ConnorN. ParikhD.A. ParkinsP. PeriG.R. PitcairnM. RiebeP. RoyT. ShahG.J.P. SinghS.S. SharpJ.D. SumanM. WedaJ. WoodcockL. Yu
Absract:This March 2009 Workshop Summary Report was sponsored by Product Quality Research Institute (PQRI) based on a proposal by the Inhalation and Nasal Technology Focus Group (INTFG) of the American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists (AAPS). Participants from the pharmaceutical industry, academia and regulatory bodies from the United States, Europe, India, and Brazil attended the workshop with the objective of presenting, reviewing, and discussing recommendations for demonstrating bioequivalence (BE) that may be considered in the development of orally inhaled drug products and regulatory guidances for new drug applications (NDAs), abbreviated NDAs (ANDAs), and postapproval changes. The workshop addressed areas related to in vitro approaches to demonstrating BE, biomarker strategies, imaging techniques, in vivo approaches to establishing local delivery equivalence and device design similarity. The workshop presented material that provided a baseline for the current understanding of orally inhaled drug products (OIPs) and identified gaps in knowledge and consensus that, if answered, might allow the design of a robust, streamlined method for the BE assessment of locally acting inhalation drugs. These included the following: (1) cascade impactor (CI) studies are not a good 2predictor of the pulmonary dose; more detailed studies on in vitro/in vivo correlations (e.g., suitability of CI studies for assessing differences in the regional deposition) are needed; (2) there is a lack of consensus on the appropriate statistical methods for assessing in vitro results; (3) fully validated and standardized imaging methods, while capable of providing information on pulmonary dose and regional deposition, might not be applicable to the BE of inhaled products mainly due to the problems of having access to radiolabeled innovator product; (4) if alternatives to current methods for establishing local delivery BE of OIPs cannot be established, biomarkers (pharmacodynamic or clinical endpoints) with a sufficiently steep dose-response need to be identified and validated for all relevant drug classes; and (5) the utility of pharmacokinetic studies for evaluating "local pulmonary delivery" equivalence deserves more attention. A summary of action items for seminars and working groups to address these topics in the future is also presented. © Copyright 2010, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

pui:354503362
Title:Inhaled insulin - does it become reality?
Authors:R. SiekmeierG. Scheuch
Absract:After more than 80 years of history the American and European Drug Agencies (FDA and EMEA) approved the first pulmonary delivered version of insulin (Exubera®) from Pfizer/Nektar early 2006. However, in October 2007, Pfizer announced it would be taking Exubera® off the market, citing that the drug had failed to gain market acceptance. Since 1924 various attempts have been made to get away from injectable insulin. Three alternative delivery methods where always discussed: Delivery to the upper nasal airways or the deep lungs, and through the stomach. From these, the delivery through the deep lungs is the most promising, because the physiological barriers for the uptake are the smallest, the inspired aerosol is deposited on a large area and the absorption into the blood happens through the extremely thin alveolar membrane. However, there is concern about the long-term effects of inhaling a growth protein into the lungs. It was assumed that the large surface area over which the insulin is spread out would minimize negative effects. But recent news indicates that, at least in smokers, the bronchial tumour rate under inhaled insulin seems to be increased. These findings, despite the fact that they are not yet statistical significant and in no case found in a non-smoker, give additional arguments to stop marketing this approach. Several companies worked on providing inhalable insulin and the insulin powder inhalation system Exubera® was the most advanced technology. Treatment has been approved for adults only and patients with pulmonary diseases (e.g., asthma, emphysema, COPD) and smokers (current smokers and individuals who recently quitted smoking) were excluded from this therapy. Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of Exubera® are similar to those found with short-acting subcutaneous human insulin or insulin analogs. It is thus possible to use Exubera® as a substitute for short-acting human insulin or insulin analogs. Typical side effects of inhaled insulin were coughing, shortness of breath, sore throat and dry mouth. Physical exercise increases the transport of inhaled insulin into the circulation and in consequence the likelihood of hypoglycemia. Other problems were the inability to deliver precise insulin doses, because the smallest blister pack available contained the equivalent of 3 U of regular insulin and this dose would make it difficult for many people using insulin to achieve accurate control, which is the real goal of any insulin therapy. For example, someone on 60 U of insulin per day would lower the blood glucose about 90 mg/dl (5 mmol) per 3 U pack, while someone on 30 U a day would drop 180 mg/dl (10 mmol) per pack. Precise control was not possible, especially compared with an insulin pump that can deliver one twentieth of a unit with precision. Another disadvantage was the size of the device. The Exubera® inhaler, when closed, was about the size of a 200 ml water glass. It opened to about twice the size for delivery. To our information also other companies (Eli Lilly in cooperation with ALKERMES, Novo Nordisk (AERx®, Liquid), Andaris (Powder)) stopped further development and it is unclear whether an inhaled form of insulin will ever be marketed, because of the problems that have occurred. Only Mannkind (Technosphere®, Powder) is still working on a Phase III trial. However, our review will briefly summarize the experience regarding inhalant administration of insulin and will describe potential future developments for this type of therapy focussing on the lung.

pui:622967814
Title:Six-minute walk test (6MWT) performance in adult patients receiving amikacin liposome inhalation suspension (ALIS) for treatment-refractory nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) lung disease caused by mycobacterium avium complex (MAC)
Authors:K.L. WinthropG. EagleR.M. ThomsonT.R. AksamitN. HasegawaK. MorimotoD.J. Addrizzo-HarrisA.E. O'DonnellT.K. MarrasP.A. FlumeM.R. LoebingerL.C. MorganL.R. CodecasaA.T. HillS.J. RuossJ.J. YimF.C. RingshausenS.K. FieldJ. NezamisD.E. Griffith
Absract:Introduction NTM lung disease caused by MAC can adversely impact patients' functional capacity. The 6MWT is a reliable measure of functional capacity across various lung diseases. Although the 6MWT is not validated in MAC lung disease, the phase 2 study of ALIS in patients with NTM lung disease showed improvement in this test, particularly in patients who achieved sputum culture conversion. In this randomized, open-label phase 3 study (CONVERT), the addition of ALIS, a liposome-encapsulated formulation of amikacin, to guideline-based therapy (GBT) achieved a significantly higher rate of culture conversion by month 6 vs GBT alone in adult patients with treatment-refractory NTM lung disease caused by MAC. Here we report the effects of 6 months of treatment on 6MWT performance. Methods Eligible patients were ≥18 years of age with MAC lung disease confirmed radiologically (plain radiography or CT) and MAC-positive sputum cultures despite ≥6 months of GBT (cystic fibrosis excluded). Patients were randomly assigned 2:1 to receive ALIS added to GBT (ALIS+GBT) or GBT-alone. ALIS was inhaled once daily using the PARI eFlow nebulizer to deliver 590 mg of amikacin. Culture conversion (3 consecutive monthly MAC-negative sputum cultures by month 6) was the primary endpoint. The change from baseline in 6MWT was a key secondary endpoint. The 6MWT was administered by site staff who were blinded to treatment assignment, and results were analyzed according to treatment group and culture conversion status by month 6. Results There were 224 patients assigned to ALIS+GBT and 112 to GBT-alone. The median age was 66.0 years; 69.3% of patients were female and 69.9% were white. Most patients had bronchiectasis (62.5%), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; 14.3%), or both (11.9%). Culture conversion was achieved by 65 of 224 patients (29.0%) receiving ALIS+GBT and 10 of 112 (8.9%) receiving GBT-alone (P<0.0001). At month 6, there was no statistically significant difference in change from baseline in 6MWT between treatment groups (Table). However, patients in the overall population who achieved culture conversion demonstrated a greater improvement in 6MWT than patients without culture conversion (P=0.011). This was particularly evident in patients within the ALIS+GBT group who achieved culture conversion (P=0.005). The observed difference within the GBT-alone group did not achieve nominal statistical significance, which may be due to the small number of converters in that group (n=10). Conclusions An association between culture conversion and improvement in the 6MWT was demonstrated overall and within the ALIS+GBT treatment arm.

doi:10.1080/00325481.2019.1655695
Title:Abuse of XTAMPZA ER is rare relative to other opioid analgesics
Authors:S.G. SevertsonK. WogenstahlT. CiceroJ. IwanickiR.C. Dart
Absract:Purpose Extended-release (ER) oxycodone products are schedule II opioid analgesics designed to provide steady pain relief over several hours. However, these products can become preferred drugs for abuse because they contain a large amount of active pharmaceutical ingredient. Some individuals who abuse ER oxycodone tamper with the medication in order to bypass the controlled-release mechanism to release the entire amount of drug in a short period of time. Products that aremore difficult to manipulate may be effective at reducing abuse via tampering and/or unintended routes of administration. XTAMPZA® ER is an abuse deterrent ER oxycodone product that uses DETERx® technology designed to discourage tampering. Studies suggest that XTAMPZA ER maintains ER properties after physical manipulation and administration via the oral or nasal routes. The FDA has granted XTAMPZA ER buse-deterrent labeling with respect to oral, nasal and IV routes of administration. This study examines the frequency and routes of abuse of XTAMPZA ER and other opioid analgesics using two surveillance systems. Methods Descriptive data collected from 2016Q3 through 2018Q4 are presented from two Researched Abuse, Diversion, and Addiction-Related Surveillance (RADARS®) System data sources: The Poison Center Program and the Treatment Center Programs Combined. The Poison Center Program obtains information on exposures from participating poison centers within the United States. Information obtained includes the reason for exposure, the route of administration, and the product involved in the exposure. In the Treatment Center Programs Combined, respondents entering treatment for opioid use disorders complete a questionnaire where they select from a list of prescription medications those they abused in the past month. Respondents are also asked to select the routes by which they administered the product (e.g. snorted, injected). Prescriptions dispensed information was obtained from the IQVIA® (Danbury, CT) US-Based Longitudinal Patient Data. Cases involving XTAMPZA ER were compared to three groups: Other abuse deterrent formulation (ADF) ER opioids, non-ADF ER opioids, and immediate-release (IR) oxycodone. Abuse deterrent ER opioids included OXYCONTIN®, EMBEDA®, HYSINGLA® ER, ARYMO® ER, and MORPHABONDTM ER. Nonabuse deterrent ER opioids included ZOHYDRO ER, MSCONTIN®, and other extended-release morphine products. Results From 2016Q3 through 2018Q4, there were 394,000 prescriptions dispensed for XTAMPZA ER, 7.6 million for other ADF ER opioids, 14.4 million for non-ADF ER opioids, and 113 million for IR oxycodone. In the Poison Center Program there were 5,531 intentional abuse exposure cases involving hydrocodone, morphine, or oxycodone; 3 involved XTAMPZA ER, 380 involved other ADF ER opioids, 91 involved non-ADF ER opioids, and 1,743 involved IR oxycodone. The percentage of intentional abuse exposures that involved the injection route of administration was 0% for XTAMPZA ER, 7.4% for other ADF ER opioids, 5.5% for non-ADF ER opioid exposures, and 2.8% for IR oxycodone exposures. The percentage of intentional abuse exposures that involved the inhalationroute of administration was 0% for XTAMPZA ER, 15.3% for other ADF ER opioids, 5.5% for non-ADF ER opioid exposures, and 12.3% for IR oxycodone. There were 22,119 valid surveys returned in the Treatment Center Programs Combined; 17 respondents reported abuse of XTAMPZA ER, 1,826 reported abuse of other ADF ER opioids, 569 reported abuse of non-ADF ER opioids, and 3,825 reported abuse of IR oxycodone. The percentage of respondents who indicated injection use among those who reported abuse was 11.8% for XTAMPZA ER, 16.5% for other ADF ER opioids, 29.3% for non-ADF ER opioids, and 12.7% for IR oxycodone. The percentage of respondents who indicated inhalation use among those who reported abuse was 23.5% for XTAMPZA ER, 30.4% for other ADF ER opioids, 17.9% for non-ADF ER opioids, and 38.2% for IR oxycodone. Conclusions Abuse of XTAMPZA ER is infrequent. No abuse of XTAMPZA ER via unintended routes of administration was reported in the Poison Center Program. The proportion of cases involving use via unintended routes of administration tended to be lower for XTAMPZA than for comparator drug groups among individuals entering treatment for opioid use disorders. A notable limitation of these analyses is that abuse of specific products is self-reported. In the Treatment Center Programs Combined, even if false positives endorsements on the survey are rare they are more likely to disproportionately inflate estimates of less common products such as XTAMPZA ER than more commonly prescribed comparators. Noting these limitations, continued monitoring in these surveillance systems can aid in identifying changes in abuse of XTAMPXA ER and other opioid analgesics.

doi:10.1182/blood-2019-122966
Title:Effect of Cyclosporine Inhalation Solution (CIS) on Lung Function and Inflammatory Biomarkers in Patients with Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant (HSCT) Associated Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome (BOS)
Authors:J. AthaleN.J. GormleyR. RegerS. AlsaatyD. RedaT. WorthyA. SaxenaX. TianR.W. ChildsA.F. Suffredini
Absract:Background: Chronic graft versus host disease of the lungs may result in bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS), an inflammatory injury to medium size airways leading to fibrosis. BOS is often treated with an increase in immunosuppression which can be associated with systemic complications (e.g. organ dysfunction, increased susceptibility to infection and blunting of graft versus leukemia effect). In order to provide enhanced local delivery of an immunosuppressant, cyclosporine, we studied the effects of cyclosporine inhalation solution (CIS) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) patients with BOS with a short-term assessment of lung function and inflammatory markers in blood and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). Methods: Patients who underwent an allogeneic HSCT meeting the NIH consensus clinical definition of BOS were eligible for inclusion, and were treated with CIS and monitored for treatment response with serial pulmonary function tests (PFTs). At baseline, patients were classified as having stable or progressive disease (i.e. > 10% decline in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) in the preceding 18 weeks). Response was defined as either improvement or stabilization at week 18. Improvement was defined as an increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end (regardless of baseline categorization) > 10%. Stabilization was defined as FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end increase or decrease < 10% in patients with progressive disease at baseline, and with a reduction in systemic immunosuppression by 25% in those with stable disease at baseline. Patients with declining FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end > 10% were classified as non-responders, and patients with FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end decline > 20% or with worsening clinical status were taken off protocol. BALs were performed at study entry and week 18 of treatment. BAL and serum samples were analyzed via a custom Luminex® panel. The 37 analytes studied included the following categories: 1) chemokines (CCL2, 3, 5, 18; CXCL5, 9, 10, 13), 2) cytokines (IL-1β, -1ra, -2, -2rα, -6, -7, -8, -10, -12p70, -15, -17a, -23, -17E/25, TNFα, IFNγ), 3) matrix metalloproteinases (MMP1-3, 7-9, 12-13), 4) growth-factors (VEGF-α, G-CSF), and 5) others (PD-L1, surfactant protein D, osteopontin, myeloperoxidase). Results: In total, 20 HSCT patients with BOS were enrolled (median age 45.5 yrs: range 14-71; 13 men and 7 women), and 11 patients completed the study through week 18. The average time from transplant was 4.6 yrs (range 1-28, median 3 yrs). Baseline FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end was 1.18 liters (range 0.5-2.02), and with an average FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end of 36% predicted (range 18-56%). At the time of enrollment, 12 patients had stable disease, and 8 had progressive disease. Nine patients discontinued treatment due to either worsening FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end by 25% (n=1), relapse of primary disease (n=1), or side effects (n=7; cough and bronchospasm). Sixteen patients were included in the evaluable patient population (patients who received treatment for at least the first two weeks) with 9 responders (4 with improvement, 5 with stabilization) and 7 non-responders. Among those completing the study (n=11), 4 had improvement in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, 5 had stable disease, and 2 were non-responders. Seven patients were continued on CIS through an extended use protocol. The baseline BAL cell differentials demonstrated a neutrophil predominance (66 + 29 %) that persisted at week 18 (56 + 35%). In the BAL, MMP-7 increased from baseline (150 + 215 pg/mL) to week 18 (1956 + 2624 pg/mL; p value 0.049), while soluble PD-L1 levels fell (97 + 55 pg/mL to 55 + 43 pg/mL; p value 0.04). The other categories of biomarkers in BAL were either undetectable (n = 12) or demonstrated no significant difference (n = 23) in patients with or without a clinical response to CIS. Similarly, concomitant serum biomarkers showed no difference in treatment after CIS, even when classified amongst responders and non-responders. Conclusion: In HSCT-BOS, CIS led to an improvement or stabilization of PFTs and/or a decrease in systemic immunosuppression in 9 of the 11 patients that completed the study. Due to cough and bronchospasm, only 11 of 20 patients were able to complete treatment through week 18. Inflammatory markers in the serum and BAL were not elevated at baseline or at the end of study. These data suggest that later stages of BOS may represent progression from a state of inflammatory injury to a fibrotic process. Based on our findings, we believe patients with later stage BOS may benefit from investigational therapeutics targeting lung remodeling. [Formula presented] Disclosures: No relevant conflicts of interest to declare. OffLabel Disclosure: Not really. This drug is not commercially available or FDA approved. An IND was obtained for the use of an inhaled formulation of cyclosporine. Aerosolized cyclosporine has been used previously in other patients (lung transplant associated BOS)

doi:10.3310/hta17560
Title:Colistimethate sodium powder and tobramycin powder for inhalation for the treatment of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis: Systematic review and economic model
Authors:P. TappendenS. HarnanL. UttleyM. MildredC. CarrollA. Cantrell
Absract:Background: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited condition characterised by the abnormal transport of chloride ions across transporting epithelia. This leads to the production of thick sticky mucus in the lungs, pancreas, liver, intestine and reproductive tract, and an increase in the salt content in sweat. Among other problems, people with CF experience recurrent respiratory infections and have difficulties digesting food. CF affects over 9000 individuals in the UK. CF shortens life expectancy and adversely affects quality of life. In 2010, CF was recorded as the cause of 103 deaths in England and Wales. Objective: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of colistimethate sodium dry powder for inhalation (DPI) (Colobreathe®, Forest Laboratories) and tobramycin DPI (TOBI Podhaler®, Novartis Pharmaceuticals) for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in CF. Data sources: Electronic databases were searched in February and March 2011 [MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed citations, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library databases, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Web of Science, Conference Proceedings Citation Index (CPCI) and Bioscience Information Service (BIOSIS) Previews]. Relevant databases were searched for ongoing and unpublished studies, and bibliographies of relevant systematic reviews and the manufacturers' submissions were also hand-searched. Review methods: A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of colistimethate sodium DPI and tobramycin DPI for the treatment of chronic P. aeruginosa lung infection in CF was conducted. Existing economic evidence within the literature was reviewed and a de novo health economic model was also developed. Results: Three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were included in the clinical effectiveness review. Both colistimethate sodium DPI and tobramycin DPI were reported to be non-inferior to nebulised tobramycin for the outcome forced expiratory volume in first second percentage predicted (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end%). It was not possible to draw any firm conclusions as to the relative efficacy of colistimethate sodium DPI compared with tobramycin DPI. The economic analysis suggests that colistimethate sodium DPI produces fewer qualityadjusted life-years (QALYs) than nebulised tobramycin. Given the incremental discounted lifetime cost of tobramycin DPI compared with nebulised tobramycin, it highly unlikely that tobramycin DPI has an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio that is better than £30,000 per QALY gained. Limitation: The uncertainty surrounding the short-term evidence base inevitably results in uncertainty surrounding the long-term clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of colistimethate sodium DPI. Conclusions: Both DPI formulations have been shown to be non-inferior to nebulised tobramycin as measured by FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end%. The results of these trials should be interpreted with caution owing to the means by which the results were analysed, the length of follow-up, and concerns about the ability of FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end% to accurately represent changes in lung health. Although the increase in QALYs is expected to be lower with colistimethate sodium DPI than with nebulised tobramycin, a price for this intervention had not been agreed at the time of the assessment. Depending on the price of colistimethate sodium DPI, this results either in a situation whereby colistimethate sodium DPI is dominated by nebulised tobramycin or in one whereby the incremental cost-effectiveness of nebulised tobramycin compared with colistimethate sodium DPI is in the range of £24,000-277,000 per QALY gained. The economic analysis also suggests that, given its price, it is unlikely that tobramycin DPI has a cost-effectiveness ratio of < £30,000 per QALY gained when compared with nebulised tobramycin. A RCT to assess the longer-term (≥ 12 months) efficacy of colistimethate sodium DPI and tobramycin DPI in comparison with nebulised treatments would be beneficial. Such a study should include the direct assessment of HRQoL using a relevant preference-based instrument. Future studies should ensure that the European Medicines Agency guidelines are adhered to. In addition, high-quality research concerning the relationship between forced expiratory volume in first second % (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end%) predicted or other measures of lung function and survival/health-related quality of life (HRQoL) would be useful. © Queen's Printer and Controller of HMSO 2013.

pui:630350447
Title:Pharmacokinetics of the extrafine fixed-dose combination of beclomethasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate, glycopyrronium bromide delivered via a pressurized-metered dose inhaler (PMDI) in Chinese subjects
Authors:G. GeorgesZ. LuoG. CiurliaP. GullerL. GirardelloF. MariottiG. Poli
Absract:Rationale: The development of the single-inhaler extrafine triple combination beclomethasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate, glycopyrronium bromide (BDP/FF/GB) in China requires the investigation of the pharmacokinetics (PK) of its components in healthy Chinese subjects. Methods: In this single-center, open-label, parallel-group, single and multiple-dose study, Chinese healthy adult volunteers, were randomized to receive either BDP/FF/GB 100/6/12.5 μg, 2 inhalations (therapeutic dose) twice daily for 7 consecutive days (Group 1) or 4 inhalations (supra-therapeutic dose) on a single occasion (Group 2). BDP/FF/GB was delivered as an extrafine formulation via a pressurized metered dose inhaler (pMDI). Serial PK assessments were obtained up to 12 hours post-dose on Day 1 and Day 7 for Group 1 and up to 24 hours postdose on Day 1 for Group 2. PK parameters were analyzed using an Analysis of Variance mo Del including group as fixed effect to evaluate the relationship between dosage and systemic exposure. Vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECG) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were monitored. Results: 24 subjects were enrolled (12 in each Group), and PK data were evaluable in 11 subjects in each group. Main PK parameters are shown in the table. Systemic exposure to BDP, B17MP (beclomethasone 17-monopropionate, the active metabolite of BDP), formoterol and GB increased proportionally with the dose, with the exception of BDP and formoterol exposures which showed a trend toward a supra-proportional increase with dose. Of note, BDP parameters should be considered with caution since it is detectable in plasma for no more than 1hour post-dose, due to its rapid conversion to B17MP. At steady state, mean accumulation ratios (Rac) were 1.46, 1.87 and 3.61 for B17MP, formoterol and GB, respectively. As expected, with both doses, mean heart rate and QT interval corrected for heart rate by Fridericia's formula (QTcF) were slightly increased, without clinical manifestations. TEAEs occurred in 6 (50.0%) subjects at the therapeutic dose during the 7-day treatment (one, diarrhea was considered treatment-related). Importantly, no TEAEs were reported for the supratherapeutic dose. All TEAEs were mild in intensity and none led to study drug discontinuation. Conclusion: In healthy Chinese adults, therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses of extrafine BDP/FF/GB showed nearly dose proportional exposure to BDP, B17MP, formoterol and GB, and a good safety profile at both dose levels. The results were comparable to previously published data from Western European healthy Caucasian subjects.

doi:10.2174/1381612013397384
Title:Alternative routes of administration as an approach to improve insulin therapy: Update on dermal, oral, nasal and pulmonary insulin delivery
Authors:L. HeinemannA. PfütznerT. Heise
Absract:For the past 75 years subcutaneous injections have been the only route of delivery of insulin therapy to diabetic patients. During this time, numerous attempts have been made to explore alternative routes for systemic insulin administration. However, thus far, no feasible other way of non-invasive insulin delivery has been developed. Dermal insulin application does not result in a reproducible and sufficient transfer of insulin across the highly efficient skin barrier. The dream of an "insulin tablet" has also not become a reality, the main problem being digestion and a lack of a specific peptide carrier system in the gut. Nasal insulin application was considered for a number of years as a potential method, because of the rapid absorption of insulin across the nasal mucosa. However, relative bioavailability was low and required use of absorption enhancers and more importantly, the metabolic effect lasted too short to be of clinical usefulness. To date the most promising alternative route of insulin administration, is the pulmonary delivery of insulin by inhalation which will likely lead to a practically usable system within the next few years. For maximal rate of absorption insulin must be applied deep into the lung, i.e., into the alveoli. A considerable number of inhalers (in combination with appropriate insulin formulations), which are ask to generate insulin particles with an appropriate size for pulmonary delivery, are currently in the clinical phase of development. The pharmacodynamic effects of insulin formulations administered via the lung are comparable to, or even faster than, those of s.c. injected regular insulin or rapid-acting insulin analogues. The relative biopotency of inhaled insulin in most cases is approximately 10%, i.e., the dose of insulin administered must be 10-fold higher than with s.c. application. The published results of clinical trials thus far, indicate that metabolic control is comparable to that of s.c. insulin therapy. As of to date no serious side effects have been reported from these human trials. In summary, it appear that after several decades of research, for the first time a feasible alternative route for insulin administration is within reach.

doi:10.5152/TurkThoracJ.2019.384
Title:Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis case related to anti-TNF use
Authors:A. YurdadoǧA. FilizN. BayramF. FakiliA. ŞimşekD. Zorlu
Absract:Introduction: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is a clinical condition with high mortality, despite the appropriate treatment following the inhalation of aspergillus conidia. Aspergillosis-related disease development may be observed in patients with impaired immune response, such as patients receiving chemotherapy due to hematological malignancies bone marrow or solid organ transplantation. We report a case of IPA that developed for a long time due to the use of anti-TNF. Case Presentation: A 54-year-old male patient presented to the emergency department with complaints of weakness loss of appetite and oral intake for 1 week he was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis, He has been using anti-TNF for 4 years.5 days ago external center was started anti-tbc treatment. Physical examination;SAO2:98,respiratory rate: 22/min, blood pres-sure:140/80 mmhg, pulse:110/min, fever: 38.3°C. Respiratory sounds were decreased in the right hemithorax and edema was present in the bilateral lower extremity. Chest x-ray showed increased opacity in the right upper and middle zones, thorax C T, heterogeneous cavitary area in right upper lobe apex and consolidation areas in right upper and lower lobe. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit with leukocytosis, hypoalbuminemia, anemia and electrolyte disturbances. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy was performed, trachea seen with millimeter white nodular lesions, main carina, right main bronchus entrance, lower lobe superior and upper lobe covered with white mucosal lesions, bronchial lavage from right main bronchus, mucosa biopsy from right upper lobe taken. Anti-tbc treatment terminated. Aspergillus Species was found in sputum culture and fungal spores and hyphae were detected in bronchial mucosa bx pathology and he was diagnosed as IPA. Voriconazole IV was firstly started at a dose of 6 mg/kg 2×1and continued at a dose of 4 mg/kg 2×1. His clinical condition improved and control graph showed regression after 10 days. Conclusion: Pulmonary aspergillosis is classified in 4 forms: Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, aspergilloma, invasive and semi-invasive aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis is an infectious disease which is usually seen in patients with immunodeficiency caused by Aspergillus type fungi and is associated with high mortality. Consolidation, frosted glass and cavitations can be seen in CT scans, while areas of consolidation or nodular opacity can be seen on chest radiography in early period. Voriconazole is the first choice of treatment. Alternative therapy can be used as isavuconazole, itraconazole, amphotericin B lipid formulation, itraconazole, kaspofungin, micafungin and posaconazole. Invasive aspergillosis is an infection in immu-nocompromised patients. Because of the high mortality, risk factors should be evaluated quickly and it should be kept in mind that the use of anti-tnf causes immunosuppression. If clinical suspicion is high, treatment should be initiated even if the diagnosis isn't clear.

doi:10.1016/0378-5173(94)90302-6
Title:Pulmonary bioavailability of leuprolide acetate following multiple dosing to beagle dogs: Some pharmacokinetic and preclinical issues
Authors:A. AdjeiJ. HuiR. FinleyLin TJ. LancasterF. Fort
Absract:Localized delivery of drugs to the lung has long been known as an effective and rapid modality for treating various pulmonary diseases. Because of its large surface area, the lung serves also as a port of drug entry to the systemic circulation. However, lung deposition of pharmaceutical aerosols is generally less than 100% of the nominal dose. This is due largely to complex biophysical factors associated with filtration mechanisms of the respiratory system (Byron et al., Pharm. Res., 3 (1989) 225-229) and patient factors. The incomplete absorption of pharmaceutical aerosols in the lung may be due in part to mechanical losses of drug during drug administration. For example, some drug is retained usually on the mouth adapter (actuator) of the inhaler during use, and often there is significant loss in the throat as a result of inertial impaction (Ganderton and Jones, Drug Delivery to the Respiratory Tract, Ellis Horwood, 1987; Byron et al., Pharm.Res., 3 (1989) 225-229). Inefficient delivery of drugs to the airways may be the single largest cause for low drug absorption via lung. For peptides, physicochemical characteristics of the drug, stability to metabolizing enzymes, molecular weight, permeability to lung mucosa, and stimulation of the alveolar macrophage clearance mechanism (Forrest, In Moren et al. (Eds), Aerosols in Medicine, Principles, Diagnostics and Therapy, Elsevier, 1985) may be more significant in decreasing the efficiency of absorption from the airways. In a previous study (Adjei et al., Int. J. Pharm., 61 (1990) 135-144), male and female beagle dogs were administered an inhalation solution aerosol formulation of leuprolide acetate at daily dosages of 0, 0.5, 1, and 2 mg for 14 consecutive days. The results demonstrated: (a) significant plasma levels following administration of leuprolide to the lung compared to a placebo aerosol formulation as control; (b) a linear dose-dependent increase in pulmonary bioavailability of leuprolide inthe dose range of 0.5-2.0 mg/dog per day; (c) no significant differences in pulmonary absorption between male and female dogs; (d) a corresponding decrease in plasma gonadotropins with sequential increases in plasma leuprolide concentrations; and (e) approx. 50% lower bioavailability on day 14 compared with day 1 of the study. The present study clarifies phenomenologic and pharmacokinetic issues associated with lung delivery of leuprolide acetate. For this study, male and female beagle dogs were administered leuprolide using a suspension aerosol formulation instead of a cosolvent based solution aerosol formulation of the drug (Adjei et al., Int. J. Pharm., 61 (1990) 135-144). The results demonstrated: (a) linear dose-dependent increases in plasma AUC of leuprolide in the dose range of 1.5-9 mg/dog per day; (b) no change in bioavailability with multiple dosage of the aerosol up to 14 days; (c) no toxicologic findings over the 14 day dosing period; and (d) the no-toxic effect level of leuprolide was 9 mg/dog per day. This paper also attempts to explain differences between in vivo performance of the alcohol-based solution aerosol (Adjei et al., Int. J. Pharm., 61 (1990) 135-144) compared with a suspension aerosol formulation of the drug.

doi:10.2174/1381612821666150531164124
Title:Emerging use of nanotechnology in the treatment of neurological disorders
Authors:R. ChhabraG. TosiA.M. Grabrucker
Absract:Neurological disorders represent one of the major health concerns worldwide. Yet currently employed treatment strategies have not been very successful in the treatment of many of these disorders. One of the root causes of this lack of success is that many pharmaceutically active compounds are unable to reach their target sites of action inside the body. The delivery of substances from systemic circulation to the desired site of action, namely central nervous system (CNS), is hindered by CNS extracellular and intracellular barriers. One promising approach to circumvent these barriers is the use of nanoscaled drug delivery systems. These nanosized drug carriers display various advantages over other conventional drug delivery methods such as high drug loading capacity, targeted action, reduced toxicity, and increased therapeutic effect. Nano-neuroscience is thereby emerging as an exciting field of study and a promising future direction for the delivery of therapeutics to their targeted site of action inside the CNS for the treatment of various neurological and psychiatric disorders. Here, we will first discuss the general pharmacokinetics of therapeutics depending on the route of administration, drawbacks of conventional drug delivery systems and challenges for CNS drug delivery, namely CNS barriers. Next, a short overview of the strategies to circumvent these barriers will be given. Finally, nanotechnology and its emerging use as drug delivery systems will be discussed. This includes the advantages of nanoparticles over other conventional drug delivery systems; production of nanoparticles and their designing as an effective drug carrier; various types of nanoparticles; and some examples of their efficient use in the delivery of bioactive substances, and in the treatment of neurological disorders mainly Alzheimer’s disease, brain tumors and neuroAIDS. Lastly, a future perspective on the use of nanotechnology in CNS drug delivery will be highlighted.

doi:10.1007/s13346-021-01011-7
Title:Spray-dried lactose-leucine microparticles for pulmonary delivery of antimycobacterial nanopharmaceuticals
Authors:D. ThiyagarajanB. HuckB. NothdurftM. KochD. RudolphM. RutschmannC. FeldmannC. HozsaM. FurchK.F.W. BeseckeR.K. GieselerB. LoretzC.-M. Lehr
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of nanocarriers for novel antimycobacterial compounds is challenging because the aerodynamic properties of nanomaterials are sub-optimal for such purposes. Here, we report the development of dry powder formulations for nanocarriers containing benzothiazinone 043 (BTZ) or levofloxacin (LVX), respectively. The intricacy is to generate dry powder aerosols with adequate aerodynamic properties while maintaining both nanostructural integrity and compound activity until reaching the deeper lung compartments. Microparticles (MPs) were prepared using vibrating mesh spray drying with lactose and leucine as approved excipients for oral inhalation drug products. MP morphologies and sizes were measured using various biophysical techniques including determination of geometric and aerodynamic mean sizes, X-ray diffraction, and confocal and focused ion beam scanning electron microscopy. Differences in the nanocarriers’ characteristics influenced the MPs’ sizes and shapes, their aerodynamic properties, and, hence, also the fraction available for lung deposition. Spay-dried powders of a BTZ nanosuspension, BTZ-loaded silica nanoparticles (NPs), and LVX-loaded liposomes showed promising respirable fractions, in contrast to zirconyl hydrogen phosphate nanocontainers. While the colloidal stability of silica NPs was improved after spray drying, MPs encapsulating either BTZ nanosuspensions or LVX-loaded liposomes showed the highest respirable fractions and active pharmaceutical ingredient loads. Importantly, for the BTZ nanosuspension, biocompatibility and in vitro uptake by a macrophage model cell line were improved even further after spray drying. Graphical abstract: [Figure not available: see fulltext.]

doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2020.10.066
Title:In Vitro and In Vivo Evaluation of 3D Printed Capsules with Pressure Triggered Release Mechanism for Oral Peptide Delivery
Authors:S. BergJ. KrauseA. BjörkbomK. WalterS. HarunA. GranfeldtD. JanzénS.F. NunesM. AntonssonN. Van ZuydamS. SkrticA. HugerthW. WeitschiesN. DaviesB. AbrahamssonC.A.S. Bergström
Absract:In this study a 3D printed capsule designed to break from the physiological pressures in the antropyloric region was evaluated for its ability to deliver the synthetic octapeptide octreotide in beagle dogs when co-formulated with the permeation enhancer sodium caprate. The pressure sensitive capsules were compared to traditional enteric coated hard gelatin capsules and enteric coated tablets. Paracetamol, which is completely absorbed in dogs, was included in the formulations and used as an absorption marker to give information about the in vivo performance of the dosage forms. The pressure sensitive capsules released drug in 50% of the dogs. In the cases where drug was released, there was no difference in octreotide bioavailability or C@sub_beginmax@sub_end compared to the enteric coated dosage forms. When comparing all dosage forms, a correlation was seen between paracetamol C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and octreotide bioavailability, suggesting that a high drug release rate may be beneficial for peptide absorption when delivered together with sodium caprate.

doi:10.1002/ppul.22495
Title:Inhaled therapy with a cellpermeable PI3KG mimetic peptide to limit bronchoconstriction and lung inflammation in cystic fibrosis
Authors:A. MurabitoV. SalaC. ButnarasuA. Della SalaF. UngaroS. VisentinE. HirschA. Ghigo
Absract:Background: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), a cyclic AMP (cAMP)-stimulated chloride channel. The consequent CFTR dysfunction results in the production of a thick, sticky mucus that is not only responsible for airway obstruction, but also traps bacteria, causing chronic infection and neutrophilic inflammation. These neutrophils produce neutrophil elastase (NE), a destructive protease that causes lung tissue damage. CF mucus is also responsible for resistance to drug diffusion, reducing the effectiveness of lung drug delivery. This is one of the major obstacles for the development of new inhalation CF therapeutics, together with aerosol particle size that affects both the dose deposited and the distribution of aerosol particles in the lungs. Hypothesis and Objectives: We previously showed that phosphoinositide 3-kinase γ (PI3Kγ) acts as a scaffold protein which negatively regulates cAMP, by favoring the activation of cAMP-degrading enzymes, phosphodiesterases 3 and 4 (PDE3 and PDE4). We designed a peptide that, by interfering with PI3Kγ scaffold activity (Patent n° WO/2016/103176), enhances cAMP levels. Here, we intend to explore the peptide's ability to enhance cAMP in airway smooth muscle and immune cells, ensuring bronchodilation and anti-inflammatory effects. Furthermore, we will verify that the compound is not degraded by NE, and that its aerosolized formulation possesses particle size and mucus permeability suitable for lung delivery. Methods: The ability of the peptide to function as a bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory agent was evaluated in a mouse model of chronic lung inflammation, ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitized mice. The ability of the peptide to raise cAMP in the presence of NE was evaluated using the cAMP Glo Assay. The permeability and the aerodynamic properties of the peptide were assessed by parallel artificial membrane permeability (PAMPA) assay and next generation impactor (NGI) study, respectively. Results: We found that, in PAMPA assay, 4.2% of the peptide is able to cross the phospholipidic barrier in the presence of CF-mimicking mucus, as much as the standard permeability reference compound propranolol. Using the cAMP Glo Assay, we demonstrated that NE only slightly affects the activity of the peptide, which is still able to significantly raise cAMP levels. Analysis by NGI revealed that the peptide has aerodynamic mean dimensions suitable for inhaled delivery in humans when nebulized by mesh nebulizers, with a respirable fraction (RF) higher than 90%. Finally, in vivo, we found that the peptide limits methacholine-induced airway hyperresponsiveness and reduces neutrophilic lung inflammation in OVA mice. Conclusions: Overall, these results demonstrate that the PI3Kγ peptide has optimal chemical and aerodynamic properties for lung delivery and can act as a bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory drug. Overall, these features make the peptide an ideal new medicinal product for the treatment of CF lung diseases.

doi:10.1586/17512433.2014.966812
Title:New treatments for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease
Authors:A.-C. VijvermanS.H. Fox
Absract:Levodopa remains the most potent drug to treat motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD); however, motor fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesia that occur with long-term use restrict some of its therapeutic value. Despite these limitations, the medical treatment of PD strives for continuous relief of symptoms using different strategies throughout the course of the illness: increasing the half-life of levodopa, using 'levodopa-sparing agents' and adding non-dopaminergic drugs. New options to 'improve' delivery of levodopa are under investigation, including long-acting levodopa, nasal inhalation and continuous subcutaneous or intrajejunal administration of levodopa. Long-acting dopamine agonists were recently developed and are undergoing further comparative studies to investigate potential superiority over the immediate-release formulations. Non-dopaminergic drugs acting on adenosine receptors, cholinergic, adrenergic, serotoninergic and glutamatergic pathways are newly developed and many are being evaluated in Phase II and Phase III trials. This article focuses on promising novel therapeutic approaches for the management of PD motor symptoms and motor complications. We will provide an update since 2011 on new formulations of current drugs, new drugs with promising results in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials, old drugs with new possibilities and some new potential strategies that are currently in Phase I and II of development (study start date may precede 2011 but are included as study is still ongoing or full data have not yet been published). Negative Phase II and Phase III clinical trials published since 2011 will also be briefly mentioned.

doi:10.3760/cma.j.issn.0366-6999.2011.07.019
Title:Degradation products of different water content sevoflurane in carbon dioxide absorbents by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis
Authors:Y. LiY.-C. LiY.-N. ZhangS.-J. LiuY.-M. ZhouC.-S. WangY.-L. GongE.-Y. Li
Absract:Background Sevoflurane is currently used as a volatile inhalation anesthetic with many clinical advantages. A representative degradation product, compound A, was quantitatively measured to investigate whether there are different reactions between two kinds of water content sevoflurane formulations with different carbon dioxide (CO@sub_begin2@sub_end) absorbents. Methods A closed-circle breathe bag with the Dräger Fabius GS anesthesia apparatus was used as an artificial rubber lung. The experiments were grouped according to different sevoflurane formulations: group A: higher-water sevoflurane (Ultane); group B: lower-water sevoflurane (Sevoness). During the experiment, CO@sub_begin2@sub_end (200 ml/min) was continually perfused to keep the end-tidal pressure of CO@sub_begin2@sub_end (P@sub_beginET@sub_endCO@sub_begin2@sub_end)at 35-45 mmHg. The artificial ventilation was set to 6 L/min, and the breathing rate at 12 breaths/min. The circuit was operated with constant fresh gas flow rate (1 L/min) and the sevoflurane concentration was kept at 1.0 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) for 240 minutes. At 0, 10, 20, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180 and 240 minutes, gas was collected from the Y-piece. Gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) was used to quantify the major degradation product, compound A, with different water content sevoflurane. P@sub_beginET@sub_endCO@sub_begin2@sub_end and sevoflurane concentration, and the temperature of the canister were continuously monitored during the experiment. Results There were no significant differences in P@sub_beginET@sub_endCO@sub_begin2@sub_end and sevoflurane concentrations between the two groups. Drägersorb 800 plus produced the highest concentrations of compound A compared with other sodalimes, and Sevoness in Drägersorb 800 plus generated more compound A than Ultane (P <0.05). There were significant differences in the peak and average compound A concentrations between Ultane and Sevoness with Drägersorb 800 plus (P <0.05), while the compound A concentration produced by Sodasorb grase and sofonolime in the two groups showed no significant difference (P >0.05). In the same group, the peak and average of compound A concentration produced by Sodasorb grase and sofonolime showed significant difference with Drägersorb 800 plus (P <0.05). Conclusion The water content of sevoflurane and potassium hydroxide in CO@sub_begin2@sub_end absorbent can influence compound A production.

doi:10.2165/00151829-200605050-00002
Title:Performance of Turbuhaler® in patients with acute airway obstruction and COPD, and in children with asthma: Understanding the clinical importance of adequate peak inspiratory flow, high lung deposition, and low in vivo dose variability
Authors:O. SelroosL. BorgströmJ. Ingelf
Absract:The dry-powder inhaler (DPI) Turbuhaler® has been on the market for nearly two decades. Products containing terbutaline, formoterol, budesonide, and the combination budesonide/formoterol are widely used by patients with asthma and COPD. Most patients and physicians find Turbuhaler® easy to use, and local side effects are rare. This is thought to arise from the lack of additives or only small amounts in the formulation, in addition to minimal deposition of the drug in the oropharynx and on the vocal cords during inspiration. The function of Turbuhaler® has frequently been questioned. This article aims to review and clarify some key issues that have been challenged in the literature (e.g. the effectiveness of Turbuhaler® in patients with more restricting conditions), to discuss the importance of lung deposition, and to explain the low in vivo variability associated with Turbuhaler® and the lack of correlation with the higher in vitro variability. Turbuhaler®, like other DPIs, is flow dependent to some degree. However, a peak inspiratory flow (PIF) through Turbuhaler® of 30 L/min gives a good clinical effect. These PIF values can be obtained by patients with conditions thought to be difficult to manage with inhalational agents, such as asthmatic children and adult patients with acute severe airway obstruction and COPD. Excellent clinical results with Turbuhaler® in large controlled studies in patients with COPD and acute severe airway obstruction provide indirect evidence that medication delivered via Turbuhaler® reaches the target organ. Due to the large amount of small particles and the moderate inbuilt resistance in Turbuhaler®, which opens up the vocal cords during inhalation, Turbuhaler® is associated with a high lung deposition (25-40% of the delivered dose) compared with pressurized metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) and other DPIs. A good correlation has been found between lung deposition and clinical efficacy. A high lung deposition always results in the best ratio between clinical efficacy and risk of unwanted systemic activity. Studies with Turbuhaler® also show that the in vivo variation in lung deposition is significantly lower compared with a pMDI or, for example, the Diskus® inhaler, and much lower than the in vitro dose variability seen in laboratory tests. Turbuhaler® appears to be a reliable DPI which can be used with confidence by patients with airway diseases, including those with clinical conditions believed to be difficult to manage with inhalational therapy. © 2006 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.mehy.2020.110079
Title:Ibuprofen, a traditional drug that may impact the course of COVID-19 new effective formulation in nebulizable solution
Authors:N.H. GarcíaD.J. PortaR.V. AlasinoS.E. MuñozD.M. Beltramo
Absract:The traditional formulation of ibuprofen is poorly soluble in water, so the administered dose must be 10 times higher than the dose required for a therapeutic effect. The development of a hydrosoluble form of ibuprofen can be a strategy to reach a high concentration in the lungs by using modern inhalation devices. Therefore, the development of an inhalable formulation with high bioavailability in the lungs was the leitmotiv of our investigation. The hypertonic ibuprofen solution to be nebulized (NIH) presents great relevant characteristics: bactericidal, virucidal, mucolytic and has a known anti-inflammatory property. Bactericidal and virucidal effects are related to the physico-chemical properties of Na-ibuprofenate as an amphipathic molecule. It has the capability to insert into the bilayer membranes destabilizing the structure, altering its biological properties and avoiding the duplication or infection. Our preliminary results indicate that the presence of this high ionic strength solution reduces 10 times the amount of ibuprofen necessary to kill bacteria, but also the time to kill 1x10@sup_begin6@sup_end bacteria, from 4 h (in its absence) to only three minutes (in its presence). That was observed using Pseudomona aeruginosa, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Burkholderia cepacia. Also, “in vitro'' ibuprofen demonstrated virucidal activity against the so-called enveloped virus, a family that includes coronavirus strain (2019-nCoV). We observed too, the markedly reduced local inflammation in the airways after administering NIH lays on its ability to inhibit the enzyme cyclooxygenase and to markedly diminish reactive oxygen species (ROS). Other investigators also showed the importance of actin in the rapid spread of virus infection. Furthermore, reorganization of the actin filaments is a key step in lung inflammation induced by systemic inflammatory responses caused by SARS-CoV-2. These findings suggest that the interaction between actin proteins and S1 is involved in the 2019-nCoV infection and pathogenesis. Consequently, the possibility of interfering in this interaction could represent a valid hypothesis for the development of promising therapeutic and prevention strategies. In conclusion, we consider that treating people with COVID-19 with NIH may be beneficial and an opportunity to contribute for the current global health emergency.

doi:10.1615/CritRevTherDrugCarrierSyst.2020034405
Title:Critical reviews on pediatric dosage form developments and medical devices
Authors:G. KaurD. NagpalK. Nagpal
Absract:The pediatric population is generally considered as “miniature adults,” but they actually differ from adults due to their different body compositions and varied stages of organ development, which alter essential biopharmaceutical parameters. The physiological differences between the pediatric population and the adult population alter the essential kinetics and dynam-ics of the same drug administered at the same dose. For pediatric patients, the drug dose is generally calculated using different formulas based on age, body surface area, or weight, or is simply reduced to half of adult dose. This, however, is not the correct practice. New approaches have emerged for designing customized formulations and medical devices for the pediatric popula-tion. Examples of customized formulations are “mini-tablets” and “oro-dispersible films,” which attempt to ease the administration of solid oral dosage forms. These specially designed medical devices have shown the ability to overcome many challenges in dose administration to children. One such medical device is the “oral solid dosage pen,” which allows for dose adjustment by cutting a tablet-like drug carrier at a predefined height and offers flexibility and convenience for dose administration to the pediatric population. Other medical devices, such as the Nipple Shield Delivery System (NSDS) and Medibottle also aid in efficient drug delivery to pediatrics. This review summarizes the challenges in dosage form design and advances in suitable medical devices for better administration to the pediatric population to overcome accidents due to medical errors, incomplete absorption, and toxicity.

pui:630350501
Title:Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic interactions between extrafine beclomethasone dipropionate and formoterol fumarate components of a fixed-dose combination for asthma and copd
Authors:G. GeorgesA. LucardieC. GarofaloC. BeaudotM. Cella
Absract:Rationale: The US clinical development of the single-inhaler triple therapy BDP/FF/G {extrafine beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), formoterol fumarate (FF), glycopyrronium (G)}, required investigation of drug-drug interactions among its individual components. This study assessed the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) interactions between the BDP and FF components. Methods: In this single-center, randomized, open-label, single-dose, 3-way crossover study, healthy adult volunteers received 4 inhalations of the fixed-dose combination BDP/FF (100/6 μg) {test, T}, BDP (100 μg) {reference 1, R1} or FF (6 μg) {reference 2, R2} all delivered via hydrofluoroalkane 134a-pressurized metered dose inhalers (HFA pMDI). Serial PK and PD assessments were conducted pre-dose and up to 24 hours post-dose. Vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECG) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were monitored for the assessment of safety. PK parameters were log-transformed and analyzed using a linear mo Del including treatment, sequence, period and subject within sequence as fixed effects. The ratios of adjusted geometric means between treatments were calculated with their 90% two-sided confidence intervals (CIs). Results: 54 subjects were enrolled. Geometric means ratios of plasma concentration C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and AUC@sub_begin0-t@sub_end and corresponding 90% CI for B17MP (beclomethasone 17- monopropionate, the most active metabolite of BDP), BDP (T/R1) and formoterol (T/R2) were all within the pre-defined acceptance interval of 80-125% (Table). The ratios for the PD parameters of serum potassium (C@sub_beginmin@sub_end; AUC@sub_begin0-4h@sub_end) and glucose (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end; AUC@sub_begin0-4h@sub_end) for the T/R1 and T/R2 comparisons also fell within 80-125%. Plasma cortisol Cmin and AUC0-24h were both 17% lower for {T} compared to {R2} and urinary cortisol Ae0-24hr was 27% lower for {T} vs {R2} with no significant differences observed between {T} and {R1}. There were small and expected increases in mean heart rate with {T} and {R2} post-dosing. QT interval corrected for heart rate by Fridericia's formula (QTcF) did not exceed 450 ms (males) or 470 ms (females) at any time. None of the laboratory, vital signs or ECG abnormalities were considered clinically relevant or a TEAE. TEAEs occurred in 31.5%, 24.1% and 26.4% of subjects on {T}, {R1} and {R2} respectively and none were severe or led to study drug discontinuation. No serious AEs were reported. Conclusion: These results support the absence of clinically-relevant drug-drug interactions between the BDP and FF components of extrafine formulation of BDP/FF 100/6 μg HFA pMDI. (Table Presented).

doi:10.1186/s12906-018-2291-9
Title:Antibacterial activity evaluation of selected essential oils in liquid and vapor phase on respiratory tract pathogens
Authors:K. ÁcsV.L. BalázsB. KocsisT. BencsikA. BöszörményiG. Horváth
Absract:Background: The increasing number of multidrug-resistant bacteria and the fact of antibiotic resistance is leading to a continuous need for discovering alternative treatments against infections, e.g. in the case of respiratory tract diseases. Essential oils (EOs), because of their volatility, can easily reach both the upper and lower parts of the respiratory tract via inhalation. Therefore, the aim of the present study was the antibacterial evaluation of clove, cinnamon bark, eucalyptus, thyme, scots pine, peppermint, and citronella EOs against respiratory tract pathogens such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, S. mutans, S. pyogenes, Haemophilus influenzae, H. parainfluenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis. Furthermore, we wanted to compare the antibacterial effect of these EOs in two different test systems to provide data for the development of an appropriate product formulation. Methods: Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) were determined with in vitro vapor phase test (VPT) and broth macrodilution test (BDT). The chemical and percentage compositions of the EOs were determined by GC-MS and GC-FID analysis. Results: Among the EOs, thyme was the most effective against S. mutans (MIC: 0.04mg/mL in BDT, but cinnamon bark and clove oils also presented high inhibition in liquid medium with MIC values of 0.06mg/mL and 0.1mg/mL against S. pneumoniae and S. pyogenes, respectively. M. catarrhalis was the most sensitive to thyme EO (MIC: 0.09mg/mL). Cinnamon bark EO was the most effective against Haemophilus spp. (MIC: 0.06mg/mL). In the VPT, cinnamon bark was the most effective oil against all investigated pathogens with MIC values in the range of 15.62-90μl/L. Surprisingly, the eucalyptus and scots pine showed weak activity against the test bacteria in both test systems. Conclusions: The EO of thyme, clove and cinnamon bark may provide promising antibacterial activity against respiratory tract pathogens either in liquid medium or in vapor phase. However, their effect is lower than that of the reference antibiotics. The combination of EOs and antibiotics may be beneficial in the alternative treatment of respiratory tract diseases. In vivo studies are necessary to calculate the effective dose of EOs in patients and determine their possible side effects and toxicity.

doi:10.1007/s10072-012-1056-3
Title:The therapeutic future in headache
Authors:A.M. Rapoport
Absract:There are many categories and individual types of headache and most have a variety of treatment protocols, while a few are best treated by just one medication. This paper will concentrate on acute care medications for migraine and discuss some new and future acute care treatments. There is not much to discuss about prevention, except that onabotulinumtoxinA has been approved for prevention of chronic migraine. Cluster headache will also be discussed, as there are some future treatments for acute care and prevention being studied at present. For the acute care of migraine in the US, we have seven triptans by tablet plus other routes and one non steroidal anti-inflammatory medication approved by the FDA that is currently available (Cambia brand of buffered diclofenac potassium for oral solution). There are several other acute care medications in various stages of development and there are three new methods of administering a triptan and others under investigation. The optimal acute care therapy for migraine should be faster, easier to use and more efficient with fewer adverse events than what is currently available. What follows is a brief review of the status in development for five of the many new acute care medications being investigated: the CGRP antagonist tablet telcagepant, the sumatriptan iontophoretic patch Zelrix, sumatriptan powder for use in the OptiNose apparatus, dihydroergotamine for oral inhalation (Levadex), civamide nasal solution for prevention of episodic cluster headache (Civanex) and sphenopalatine ganglion stimulation for acute cluster attacks in chronic cluster headaches. Other future treatments that will not be discussed include transcranial magnetic stimulation, a 5-HT@sub_begin1F@sub_end agonist named alniditan, large conductance calcium- activated potassium channel openers, glial modulators or other medications and devices in early stages of development. © Springer-Verlag 2012.

doi:10.3390/pharmaceutics13111851
Title:Aerosol delivery of surfactant liposomes for management of pulmonary fibrosis: An approach supporting pulmonary mechanics
Authors:S. KottaH.M. AldawsariS.M. Badr-EldinL.S. BinmahfouzR.B. BakhaidarN. SreeharshaA.B. NairC. Ramnarayanan
Absract:Excessive architectural re-modeling of tissues in pulmonary fibrosis due to proliferation of myofibroblasts and deposition of extracellular matrix adversely affects the elasticity of the alveoli and lung function. Progressively destructive chronic inflammatory disease, therefore, necessitates safe and effective non-invasive airway delivery that can reach deep alveoli, restore the surfactant function and reduce oxidative stress. We designed an endogenous surfactant-based liposomal delivery system of naringin to be delivered as an aerosol that supports pulmonary mechanics for the management of pulmonary fibrosis. Phosphatidylcholine-based liposomes showed 91.5 ± 2.4% encapsulation of naringin, with a mean size of 171.4 ± 5.8 nm and zeta potential of −15.5 ± 1.3 mV. Liposomes with the unilamellar structure were found to be spherical and homogeneous in shape using electron microscope imaging. The formulation showed surface tension of 32.6 ± 0.96 mN/m and was able to maintain airway patency of 97 ± 2.5% for a 120 s test period ensuring the effective opening of lung capillaries and deep lung delivery. In vitro lung deposition utilizing Twin Stage Impinger showed 79 ± 1.5% deposition in lower airways, and Anderson Cascade Impactor deposition revealed a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 2.35 ± 1.02 µm for the aerosolized formulation. In vivo efficacy of the developed formulation was analyzed in bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis model in rats after administration by the inhalation route. Lactate dehydrogenase activity, total protein content, and inflammatory cell infiltration in broncho-alveolar lavage fluid were substantially reduced by liposomal naringin. Oxidative stress was minimized as observed from levels of antioxidant enzymes. Masson’s Trichrome staining of lung tissue revealed significant amelioration of histological changes and lesser deposition of collagen. Overall results indicated the therapeutic potential of the developed non-invasive aerosol formulation for the effective management of pulmonary fibrosis.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2021.102019
Title:Pharmacokinetics of mometasone furoate delivered via two dry powder inhalers
Authors:S. VaidyaD. ZieglerA.-M. TanaseU. MalmqvistF. KanniessB. HedererM. Hosoe
Absract:Background: QMF149 is an inhaled fixed-dose combination of indacaterol acetate and mometasone furoate (MF) delivered via Breezhaler®, under development for once-daily treatment of asthma. MF delivered via Twisthaler® is approved as Asmanex® Twisthaler® for the treatment of asthma. Bridging of MF delivered via Twisthaler® to MF delivered via Breezhaler® was undertaken as part of QMF149 development to enable dose comparisons between the devices. Pharmacokinetics (PK) of MF were characterized in two studies; a single dose PK study in healthy volunteers and a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study in asthma patients. Objectives: The PK study in healthy volunteers evaluated the PK of single doses of MF via Breezhaler® (50–400 μg) and compared systemic exposure of MF following administration via Breezhaler® and Twisthaler® 400 μg (2 inhalations of 200 μg). The study in patients with asthma characterized the MF PK profile following once-daily inhalation of MF via Breezhaler® and Twisthaler® devices for 4 weeks. Methods: In the open-label, single-dose, crossover study, healthy subjects sequentially received MF via Twisthaler® (400 μg, medium-dose inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]) and escalating doses via Breezhaler® (50, 100, 200, 400 μg). PK data were obtained up to 72 h post-dose. In the double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group study, asthma patients were randomised to receive either MF 80 μg (low-dose ICS) or 320 μg (high-dose ICS) via Breezhaler®, or 200 μg (low-dose ICS) or 800 μg (2 inhalations of 400 μg; high-dose ICS) via Twisthaler® once daily for 4 weeks. PK sampling was performed on Days 1 and 28 at pre-dose and up to 24 h post-dose. Results: In the healthy volunteer PK study, 20 healthy subjects completed all treatments. Dose-normalised AUC@sub_beginlast@sub_end of MF was 1.8–1.9-fold higher when delivered via Breezhaler® versus Twisthaler®. AUC and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of MF increased in a dose-proportional manner over the range of 50–400 μg via Breezhaler®. Results from this study guided dose selection of MF via Breezhaler® for the asthma study. In the asthma study, in a subset of 96 patients, mean systemic exposure (AUC@sub_beginlast@sub_end and C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) for MF 80 and 320 μg via Breezhaler® was comparable with MF 200 and 800 μg via Twisthaler®, respectively, on Day 28. Conclusion: PK characterization in a healthy volunteer PK study and subsequently an asthma study enabled selection of 80 μg (low), 160 μg (medium), and 320 μg (high) delivered via Breezhaler® as MF doses comparable to the 200 μg, 400 μg and 800 μg doses delivered by Twisthaler®, respectively, as part of QMF149 formulation development.

doi:10.1124/jpet.117.242099
Title:Preclinical pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of inhaled hexadecyl-treprostinil (C16TR), a pulmonary vasodilator prodrug
Authors:M.R. CorbozZ. LiV. MalininA.J. PlauntD.M. KonicekF.G. LeiferK.-J. ChenC.E. LaurentH. YinM.C. BiernatD. SalvailJ. ZhuangF. XuA. CurranW.R. PerkinsR.W. Chapman
Absract:This article describes the preclinical pharmacology and pharmacokinetics (PK) of hexadecyl-treprostinil (C16TR), a prodrug of treprostinil (TRE), formulated in a lipid nanoparticle (LNP) for inhalation as a pulmonary vasodilator. C16TR showed no activity (.10 mM) in receptor binding and enzyme inhibition assays, including binding to prostaglandin E@sub_begin2@sub_end receptor 2, prostaglandin D@sub_begin2@sub_end receptor 1, prostaglandin I@sub_begin2@sub_end receptor, and prostaglandin E@sub_begin2@sub_end receptor 4; TRE potently bound to each of these prostanoid receptors. C16TR had no effect (up to 200 nM) on platelet aggregation induced by ADP in rat blood. In hypoxia-challenged rats, inhaled C16TR-LNP produced dose-dependent (0.06–6 mg/kg), sustained pulmonary vasodilation over 3 hours; inhaled TRE (6 mg/kg) was active at earlier times but lost its effect by 3 hours. Single- and multiple-dose PK studies of inhaled C16TR-LNP in rats showed proportionate dose-dependent increases in TRE C@sub_beginmax@sub_end and area under the curve (AUC) for both plasma and lung; similar results were observed for dog plasma levels in single-dose PK studies. In both species, inhaled C16TR-LNP yielded prolonged plasma TRE levels and a lower plasma TRE C@sub_beginmax@sub_end compared with inhaled TRE. Inhaled C16TR-LNP was well tolerated in rats and dogs; TRE-related side effects included cough, respiratory tract irritation, and emesis and were seen only after high inhaled doses of C16TR-LNP in dogs. In Guinea pigs, inhaled TRE (30 mg/ml) consistently produced cough, but C16TR-LNP (30 mg/ml) elicited no effect. These results demonstrate that C16TR-LNP provides long-acting pulmonary vasodilation, is well tolerated in animal studies, and may necessitate less frequent dosing than inhaled TRE with possibly fewer side effects.

doi:10.1186/s13601-020-00353-8
Title:The role of antifungals in the management of patients with severe asthma
Authors:W.G. RapeportK. ItoD.W. Denning
Absract:In patients with asthma, the inhalation of elevated amounts of fungal spores and hyphae may precipitate the onset of asthma or worsen control to the extent of being life-threatening. Sensitisation to fungi, especially Aspergillus fumigatus, is found in 15% to 48% of asthmatics in secondary care and is linked to worse asthma control, hospitalisation, bronchiectasis and fixed airflow obstruction, irrespective of whether allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is diagnosed. ABPA represents a florid response to the presence of Aspergillus spp. but up to 70% of patients with severe asthma exhibit sensitisation to different fungi without meeting the diagnostic criteria for ABPA. The presence of persistent endobronchial colonisation with fungi, especially A. fumigatus, is linked to significantly higher rates of radiological abnormalities, lower post-bronchodilator FEV1 and significantly less reversibility to short acting bronchodilators. The therapeutic benefit for antifungal intervention in severe asthma is based on the assumption that reductions in airway fungal burden may result in improvements in asthma control, lung function and symptoms (especially cough). This contention is supported by several prospective studies which demonstrate the effectiveness of antifungals for the treatment of ABPA. Significantly, these studies confirm lower toxicity of treatment with azoles versus high dose oral corticosteroid dosing regimens for ABPA. Here we review recent evidence for the role of fungi in the progression of severe asthma and provide recommendations for the use of antifungal agents in patients with severe asthma, airways fungal infection (mycosis) and fungal colonisation. Documenting fungal airways colonisation and sensitisation in those with severe asthma opens up alternative therapy options of antifungal therapy, which may be particularly valuable in low resource settings.

doi:10.1111/jphp.13062
Title:Design and characterisation of spray-dried ciprofloxacin co-crystals with improved flowability for use in dry powder inhalers (DPIs)1
Authors:H. Al-ObaidiA. MohammedS.Q. Madueke
Absract:Ciprofloxacin (CFX) is an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections and was used as a model drug in this study. CFX has been used as a first-line treatment for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections that emerge in cystic fibrosis 1; current treatment is based on oral and intravenous drug delivery, which often have poor penetration into the bacteria colonised mucus and biofilms2. This project aimed to formulate novel physical complexes (cocrystals) using spray-drying as a technique for the generation of pharmaceutical cocrystals which can be delivered directly to lungs via inhalation. Forming cocrystals via spray-drying could potentially enhance the use of cocrystals in pharmaceutical industry, as traditional methods to form cocrystals are based on lab scale techniques, which have limited the application of cocrystals as potential drug delivery systems. In this work, cocrystals of CFX were synthesised with tartaric acid (TA) to produce particles with improved flow properties. Poor flowability has been a major challenge for developing drug delivery strategies using dry powder inhalers. The spray-dried samples were characterised by X-Ray Powder Diffractometry (XRPD), Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and viscosity measurements. X-ray data have confirmed the presence of a distinct crystalline phase which occurs at a molar ratio of CFX to TA (1:3). On the other hand, FTIR data showed the presence of pure CFX in the zwitterionic form and the subsequent loss of this structure, when combined with TA, indicating the formation of a free carboxylic acid moiety with a potential to form hydrogen bonds, which is observed by blue shifts in the correspondent spectra peaks. HPLC data supported these findings where elusion time and chromatogram intensity differed significantly from the commercially available ciprofloxacin hydrochloride salt, TA and the physical mixture. Formulating antibiotics as cocrystals, particularly when prepared by the spray-drying method, represents a promising approach for engineering powders suitable for pulmonary drug delivery3. In addition, the use of spray-drying presents an option for scalable cocrystal manufacture3. Overall, the results of this study showed that, using a molar ratio of CFX to TA (1:3), it was possible to form cocrystals with desired properties via spray-drying, which agrees with a number of previous reports in which pharmaceutical cocrystals were successfully prepared by spray-drying3. A limitation of the study was the lack of data on the exact conformation of the formed crystalline phase, as tests conducted (XRPD and FTIR) only confirmed the formation of cocrystals; consequently, future work should focus on crystalline phase determination of the formed cocrystal, as different crystal structures possess drastically different physical and chemical properties, ultimately affecting powder behaviour. Future work should additionally focus on in vitro aerosolisation assessment of these formulations using the Next Generation Impactor (NGI) to confirm its use for pulmonary delivery by means of a dry powder inhaler. Additional experiments should explore the fate of these particles using cell culture work where properties such as permeability and antimicrobial activity can be assessed.

doi:10.2165/11635860-000000000-00000
Title:Will abuse-deterrent formulations of opioid analgesics be successful in achieving their purpose?
Authors:B. Bannwarth
Absract:During the last 2 decades, there has been a dramatic increase in the use of strong opioids for chronic non-cancer pain. This increase has been accompanied by a steep increase in abuse, misuse, and both fatal and non-fatal overdoses involving prescription opioids. The situation is already alarming in the US. Prescription opioid-related harm is a complex, multifactorial issue that requires a multifaceted solution. In this respect, formulations of opioid analgesics designed to resist or deter abuse may be a useful component of a comprehensive opioid risk minimization programme. Such formulations have or are being developed. Abuse-resistant opioids include those that use some kind of physical barrier to prevent tampering with the formulation. Abuse-deterrent opioids are not necessarily resistant to tampering, but contain substances that are designed to make the formulation less attractive to abusers. This article focuses on two products intended to deter abuse that were reviewed by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The first (Embeda®) consists of extended-release morphine with sequestered naltrexone, an opioid antagonist that is released if the tablet is compromised by chewing or crushing. Although Embeda® exhibited abuse-deterrent features, its label warns that it can be abused in a manner similar to other opioid agonists. Furthermore, tampering with Embeda® will result in the release of naltrexone, which may precipitate withdrawal in opioid-tolerant individuals. In March 2011, all dosage forms of Embeda® were recalled because the product failed to meet routine stability standards, and its return date to the market is currently unknown. The second product (Acurox®) was intended to be both tamper resistant and abuse deterrent. It consisted of an immediate-release oxycodone tablet with subtherapeutic niacin as an aversive agent and used a gel-forming ingredient designed to inhibit inhalation and prevent extraction of the drug for injection. The new drug application for Acurox® was rejected in 2010 by the FDA because of concerns about the potential abuse-deterrent benefits of niacin.While acknowledging that no one formulation can be expected to deter all types of opioid-abusive behaviours and no product is likely to be abuse proof in the hands of clear and determined abusers, the reductions in abuse these new products would provide may be an incremental step towards safer prescription opioids. © 2012 Springer International Publishing AG. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1517/17425240903241788
Title:Preclinical models for pulmonary drug delivery
Authors:C.A. FernandesR. Vanbever
Absract:Background: The lung comprises an interesting route of administration not only for topical drugs but also for systemically acting drugs. Over the last years, several models have been developed in order to study the efficacy and safety of pulmonary drug delivery. Objective: This review describes relevant drug delivery models for preclinical evaluation of inhaled drug products. Methods: Epithelial cell culture models, the isolated perfused lung and in vivo models are reviewed. The suitability and limitations of each method are discussed. This review is mostly based on publications from the last 10 years. Results/conclusion: Cell cultures are ideal models to compare transport rates of molecules and to study their mechanisms of transepithelial transport. Yet the most complete assessment of pulmonary drug delivery including delivery efficacy and safety remains provided by studies performed in vivo in animal models. © 2009 Informa UK Ltd.

doi:10.1007/s13318-021-00689-x
Title:Population Pharmacokinetic Analysis of Indacaterol/Glycopyrronium/Mometasone Furoate After Administration of Combination Therapies Using the Breezhaler@sup_begin®@sup_end Device in Patients with Asthma
Authors:C. BartelsM. JainJ. YuH.-C. TillmannS. Vaidya
Absract:Background and Objective: Clinical evidence suggests no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions between indacaterol (IND), glycopyrronium (GLY) and mometasone furoate (MF). A population pharmacokinetic (popPK) analysis was conducted to identify structural models describing systemic pharmacokinetic profiles of IND, GLY and MF, and estimate the effect of covariates on their pharmacokinetics following inhalation as IND/GLY/MF. Methods: Pharmacokinetic data from 698 patients with asthma were pooled from two Phase III studies that evaluated IND/MF medium- (150/160 µg) and high-dose (150/320 µg), IND/GLY/MF medium- (150/50/80 μg) and high-dose (150/50/160 μg), and a device bridging Phase II study with MF. One popPK model was developed each for IND, GLY and MF using a nonlinear mixed-effect modelling approach. Maximal and trough plasma concentrations were compared across formulations and studies, including data for IND/GLY from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients. The effect of predefined covariates on the pharmacokinetics of components was evaluated using a full covariate modelling approach. Results: The final pharmacokinetic models were two-compartment disposition models with first-order elimination and sequential zero-order/first-order absorption (IND), with bolus administration and first-order elimination (GLY), and with mixed zero-order/first-order absorption and first-order elimination (MF). All model parameters were estimated with good precision (% relative standard error: IND and MF ≤25%; GLY <10%). No clinically relevant covariate effect was observed on the pharmacokinetics of IND, GLY and MF. IND and GLY pharmacokinetic profiles were similar across different formulations. Conclusion: Two-compartment popPK models adequately described the pharmacokinetics of IND, GLY and MF. The effect of covariates was not clinically relevant. The pharmacokinetic profiles of MF were comparable for combination products at corresponding medium- or high-dose inhaled corticosteroids. On a population level, the pharmacokinetics of IND and GLY were comparable between patients with asthma and COPD.

doi:10.1016/j.jtho.2019.08.643
Title:MA17.09 5-Azacytidine Inhaled Dry Powder Formulation Profoundly Improves Pharmacokinetics and Efficacy for Lung Cancer Therapy
Authors:P. KuehlC. TellezM. GrimesM. BurkeA. BadenochD. DuboseS. Belinsky
Absract:Background: Epigenetic therapy through its ability to activate hundreds of genes silenced by promoter hypermethylation in lung cancer could produce durable and sustained tumor regression. The demethylating agent 5-azacytidine (5AZA) is unstable in aqueous solution and subject to hydrolysis and catabolism by cytidine deaminase (CDA) in liver, thereby reducing drug concentration after systemic administration prior to reaching the lung. Delivering 5AZA by inhalation could mitigate these barriers. Method: A stable, respirable (3.5 μM) dry powder formulation of 5AZA was generated. Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies in rats compared systemic dosing to inhaled delivery of a dry powder or aqueous formulation of 5AZA in the presence and absence of the CDA inhibitor tetrahyroduridine (THU). An orthotopic nude rat lung cancer model compared efficacy of inhaled dry powder versus aqueous 5AZA for treatment of engrafted human adenocarcinoma (Calu6, Calu3), adenocarcinoma in situ (H358), and squamous cell (RH2) tumor lines. Three weeks following engraftment (lungs contain multiple tumors), rats were treated 4 times weekly for 4 weeks, then sacrificed to assess tumor burden and genome-wide effects on the methylome in vehicle and treated tumors using the Illumina EPIC array. Result: Plasma PK showed a ∼10-fold increase in area under the curve (AUC) and a 1.5 and 5-fold increase in maximum concentration (Cmax) comparing inhaled dry powder (0.6 mg/kg) to systemic (2 mg/kg, equivalent to the human injectable dose of 75 mg/m2) and inhaled aqueous (0.6 mg/kg) 5AZA that was augmented by THU. Inhaled dry powder and aqueous 5AZA PK in lung were similar and greatly exceeded systemic (30-fold Cmax; 47-fold AUC). PK in liver and brain were superior for dry powder with 7- and 26-fold increase in AUC and 7- and 3.3-fold increase in Cmax compared to systemic or aqueous dosing. The efficacy study comparing inhaled delivery of equivalent doses (0.6 mg/kg lung dose) showed dry powder was significantly better than aqueous with a 70–80% compared to 33–50% reduction in tumor burden for Calu6, Calu3, and RH2 and equally effective in largely curing H358 tumors. A significantly increased median number of genes (175–320 versus 25–270) exhibiting ≥30% demethylation of CpGs across their promoter region was seen for Calu6, Calu3, and H358 tumors exposed to dry powder versus aqueous 5AZA, with equivalent numbers of genes demethylated for RH2. Conclusion: Delivery of a dry powder formulation of 5AZA via an inhaler could be used to treat local and metastatic lung cancer (Support–CA196590). Keywords: Epigenetic cytosine demethylation therapy, Inhaled delivery, 5-azacytidine

doi:10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.6b01061
Title:Cocktail of Superoxide Dismutase and Fasudil Encapsulated in Targeted Liposomes Slows PAH Progression at a Reduced Dosing Frequency
Authors:N. GuptaJ. RashidE. Nozik-GrayckI.F. McMurtryK.R. StenmarkF. Ahsan
Absract:Currently, two or more pulmonary vasodilators are used to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), but conventional vasodilators alone cannot reverse disease progression. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that a combination therapy comprising a vasodilator plus a therapeutic agent that slows pulmonary arterial remodeling and right heart hypertrophy is an efficacious alternative to current vasodilator-based PAH therapy. Thus, we encapsulated a cocktail of superoxide dismutase (SOD), a superoxide scavenger, and fasudil, a specific rho-kinase inhibitor, into a liposomal formulation equipped with a homing peptide, CAR. We evaluated the effect of the formulations on pulmonary hemodynamics in monocrotaline-induced PAH rats (MCT-induced PAH) and assessed the formulation’s efficacy in slowing the disease progression in Sugen-5416/hypoxia-induced PAH rats (SU/hypoxia-induced PAH). For acute studies, we monitored both mean pulmonary and systemic arterial pressures (mPAP and mSAP) for 2 to 6 h after a single dose of the plain drugs or formulations. In chronic studies, PAH rats received plain drugs every 48 h and the formulations every 72 h for 21 days. In MCT-induced PAH rats, CAR-modified liposomes containing fasudil plus SOD elicited a more pronounced, prolonged, and selective reduction in mPAP than unmodified liposomes and plain drugs did. In SU/hypoxia-induced PAH rats, the formulation produced a >50% reduction in mPAP and slowed right ventricular hypertrophy. When compared with individual plain drugs or combination, CAR-modified-liposomes containing both drugs reduced the extent of collagen deposition, muscularization of arteries, increased SOD levels in the lungs, and decreased the expression of pSTAT-3 and p-MYPT1. Overall, CAR-modified-liposomes of SOD plus fasudil, given every 72 h, was as efficacious as plain drugs, given every 48 h, suggesting that the formulation can reduce the total drug intake, systemic exposures, and dosing frequency.

doi:10.1021/acsbiomaterials.0c01126
Title:Aerosol Delivery of Paclitaxel-Containing Self-Assembled Nanocochleates for Treating Pulmonary Metastasis: An Approach Supporting Pulmonary Mechanics
Authors:T. ShanmugamN. JoshiA. KaviratnaN. AhamadE. BhatiaR. Banerjee
Absract:Paclitaxel (PTX) is a potent anticancer agent, which is clinically administered by infusion for treating pulmonary metastasis of different cancers. Systemic injection of PTX is promising in treating pulmonary metastasis of various cancers but simultaneously leads to many severe complications in the body. In this study, we have demonstrated a noninvasive approach for delivering PTX to deep pulmonary tissues via an inhalable phospholipid-based nanocochleate platform and showed its potential in treating pulmonary metastasis of melanoma cancer. Nanocochleates have been previously explored for oral delivery of anticancer drugs; their application for aerosol-based administration has not been accomplished in the literature thus far. Our results showed that the PTX-carrying aerosol nanocochleates (PTX-CPTs) possessed excellent pulmonary surfactant action characterized by high surface activity and encouraging in vitro terminal airway patency when compared to the marketed Taxol formulation, which is known to contain a high amount of Cremophore EL. We observed under in vitro twin-impinger analysis that the PTX-CPT had a high tendency to get deposited in stage II (alveolar region of lungs), indicating the capability of CPT to reach the deep alveolar region. Further, while exposed to the human lung adenocarcinoma cell line (A549), the PTX-CPT showed excellent cytotoxicity mediated by enhanced cellular uptake via energy-dependent endocytosis. Aerosol-based administration of PTX-CPT in a pulmonary metastatic murine melanoma model (B16F10) resulted in significant (p < 0.05) tumor growth inhibition when compared to an intravenous dose of Taxol. Inhibition of tumor growth in aerosol-based PTX-CPT-treated animals was evident by the significant (p < 0.05) reduction in numbers of tumor nodules and percent metastasis area covered by melanoma cells in the lung when compared to other treatment groups. Overall, our finding suggests that PTX can be safely administered in the form of an aerosol using a newly developed CPT system, which serves a dual purpose as both a drug delivery carrier and a pulmonary surfactant in treating pulmonary metastasis.

doi:10.1007/s40265-013-0130-3
Title:Alternative delivery systems for agents to treat acute agitation: Progress to date
Authors:K. NordstromM.H. Allen
Absract:Psychomotor agitation is often associated with aggression. It is important to identify agitation early and achieve results quickly in order to prevent aggressive behavior. Strategies may include verbal de-escalation techniques, reduced stimulation, medications, or a combination of approaches. Historically, pharmacological treatments for agitation have been delivered using oral and intramuscular formulations. Although the types of medication available have not changed dramatically, different formulations have been developed recently to aid in treating this difficult condition. This paper will detail some of the newer, more novel formulations used to deliver medications to treat agitation. Formulations to be described include orally disintegrating tablets, sublingual, buccal and intranasal forms, as well as an inhalation form. Each form has a unique purpose and will aid in treatment of different populations at different levels of agitation. Of note, of the medication formulations to be discussed, only inhaled loxapine is FDA approved for acute agitation in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and no medications are approved for 'agitation' outside of a specific disease state. The orally disintegrating tablets of olanzapine, risperidone, and aripiprazole are swallowed and enter the circulation via the portal system. They do not have a more rapid onset of action than the standard oral tablets but are useful for patients that might otherwise divert the medication. The sublingual, buccal and intranasal formulations include asenapine and midazolam. Absorption by this route is more rapid and avoids first-pass metabolism. Finally, inhaled loxapine enters the alveoli and appears quickly in the arterial circulation. All of these novel formulations require at least some cooperation but have the potential to prevent escalation and improve the experience of patients and could be considered when negotiation is possible. © 2013 Springer International Publishing Switzerland.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.1601
Title:Predicting Lung Deposition of Extrafine Inhaled Corticosteroid-Containing Fixed Combinations in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Using Functional Respiratory Imaging: An in Silico Study
Authors:O.S. UsmaniB. MignotI. KendallR.D. MariaD. CocconiG. GeorgesN. Scichilone
Absract:Background: Functional respiratory imaging (FRI) is a computational fluid dynamics-based technique using three-dimensional models of human lungs and formulation profiles to simulate aerosol deposition. Methods: FRI was used to evaluate lung deposition of extrafine beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP)/formoterol fumarate (FF)/glycopyrronium bromide (GB) and extrafine BDP/FF delivered through pressurized metered dose inhalers and to compare results with reference gamma scintigraphy data. FRI combined high-resolution computed tomography scans of 20 patients with moderate-to-severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second 42% predicted) with in silico computational flow simulations, and incorporated drug delivery parameters to calculate aerosol airway deposition. Inhalation was simulated using profiles obtained from real-life measurements. Results: Total lung deposition (proportion deposited in intrathoracic region) was similarly high for both products, with mean ± standard deviation (SD) values of 31.0% ± 5.7% and 28.1% ± 5.2% (relative to nominal dose) for BDP/FF/GB and BDP/FF, respectively. Pairwise comparison of the deposition of BDP and FF gave a mean intrathoracic BDP/FF/GB:BDP/FF deposition ratio of 1.10 (p = 0.0405). Mean intrathoracic, central and peripheral deposition ratios for BDP were 1.09 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.05-1.14), 0.92 (95% CI: 0.89-0.96), and 1.20 (95% CI: 1.15-1.26), respectively, and for FF were 1.11 (95% CI: 1.07-1.15), 0.94 (95% CI: 0.91-0.98), and 1.21 (95% CI: 1.15-1.27), within the bioequivalence range (0.80-1.25) for intrathoracic and central regions, and slightly exceeding the upper boundary in the peripheral region. Mean ± SD central:peripheral deposition (C:P) was 0.48 ± 0.13 for BDP/FF/GB and 0.62 ± 0.17 for BDP/FF, indicating a higher proportion of drug deposition in the small airways than in the large airways. Conclusion: FRI demonstrated similar deposition patterns for extrafine BDP/FF/GB and BDP/FF, with both having a high lung deposition. Moreover, the deposition patterns of BDP and FF were similar in both products. Furthermore, the C:P ratios of both products indicated a high peripheral deposition, supporting small airway targeting and delivery of these two extrafine fixed combinations, with a small difference in ratios potentially due to mass median aerodynamic diameters.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2020.ab01.abstracts
Title:Aerosol drug delivery through the mouth to target nasal cavities: RetroNose® concept
Authors:A. RegardD. Le PennecG. GrevinL. Vecellio
Absract:Introduction Nasal drug delivery is a non-invasive method that allows a rapid and high local therapeutic effect. It also offers significant opportunities for new drug development in order to deliver systemic drugs, vaccines and treatments for the central nervous system. The clinical efficacy of a nasal treatment depends on its deposition in the nasal cavities, because the pharmaceutical target (local, systemic, vaccine, brain) is directly related to a specific nasal anatomical region. A study on chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) patients has shown how corticosteroids deposition in the nasal cavities can have an impact on clinical outcomes [1]. This study has demonstrated the importance of a homogenous deposition in the different target regions of the nasal cavity, including maxillary sinuses to treat CRS. The turbinates, the maxillary sinuses and the ethmoid regions have been identified as important drug delivery target sites for local treatment of inflammation and infection in rhinological pathologies. Systemic delivery is enhanced by exposing the drug to the middle and inferior turbinates and the septum with a high vascularization and large surface area (around 150 cm2). The upper part of the nasal cavity (ethmoidal region) has been described as the target zone for nose to brain drugs [2]. Two main devices are on the market: Nasal spray and nebulizer. Nasal spray pumps are the more common devices used on the market for nasal drug delivery. However, they have limitations regarding their formulations and technologies. The drug fraction delivered beyond the nasal valve is low and most deposited drug is rapidly removed by mucociliary clearance and then eliminated through the digestive tract [3]. Furthermore, dose delivery to the target sites depends on many factors, such as nasal tip penetration and orientation, resulting in considerable variability in terms of drug deposition. Nebulizers are medical devices generating fine droplets. They produce a better penetration in the different parts of nasal cavities but they are associated with lung deposition and a duration of inhalation around 5 to 10 min which could limit the patient adherence. New devices are coming on the market for improving the deposition profile and all they use a nasal tip for drug delivery in the nose. A different concept using a mouthpiece for aerosol drug delivery through the mouth to target nasal cavities has been developed. This new concept (RetroNose®) uses an aerosol generator to administer the drug through the buccal cavity during the nasal expiratory phase. The drug particles enter in the nasal cavities through the rhino pharynx. We have conducted different studies to evaluate the impact of this method on deposition profile in comparison with nasal drug administrated by a nasal tip. In a first step, we evaluated the influence of the particle size, the expiratory flow rate and the anatomy on the deposition profile using nasal casts with RetroNose®. In a second step, we compared deposition profile using nasal spray pump, nebulizer and a prototype based on the RetroNose® concept.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2012.1Su4
Title:Standardization of techniques for using planar (2D) imaging for aerosol deposition assessment of orally inhaled products
Authors:S. NewmanW.D. BennettM. BiddiscombeS.G. DevadasonM.B. DolovichJ. FlemingS. HaeussermannC. KietzigP.J. KuehlB.L. LaubeK. SommererG. TaylorO.S. UsmaniK.L. Zeman
Absract:Two-dimensional (2D or planar) imaging with @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc radiolabels enables quantification of whole-lung and regional lung depositions for orally inhaled drug products. This article recommends standardized methodology for 2D imaging studies. Simultaneous anterior and posterior imaging with a dual-headed gamma camera is preferred, but imaging with a single-headed gamma camera is also acceptable. Correction of raw data for the effects of gamma ray attenuation is considered essential for accurate quantification, for instance, using transmission scanning with a flood-field source of @sup_begin99m@sup_endTc or @sup_begin57@sup_endCo. Evidence should be provided of the accuracy of the quantification method, for instance, by determining "mass balance." Lung deposition may be expressed as a percentage of ex-valve or ex-device dose, but should also be given as mass of drug when possible. Assessment of regional lung deposition requires delineation of the lung borders, using X-ray computed tomography, radioactive gas scans (@sup_begin133@sup_endXe or @sup_begin81m@sup_endKr), or transmission scans. When quantifying regional lung deposition, the lung should be divided into outer (O) and inner (I) zones. A penetration index should be calculated, as the O/I ratio for aerosol, normalized to that for a radioactive gas or transmission scan. A variety of methods can be used to assess lung deposition and distribution. Methodology and results should be documented in detail, so that data from different centers may be compared. The use of appropriate methodology will provide greater confidence in the results of 2D imaging studies, and should allay concerns that such studies are qualitative or semiquantitative in nature. © Copyright 2012, Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

pui:38765415
Title:Triamcinolone
Authors:S.A. Doggrell
Absract:Triamcinolone is a synthetic corticosteroid that is clinically used for its antiinflammatory and antiproliferative actions. Triamcinolone was designed to undergo extensive first pass liver metabolism, and this limits systemic effects. The inhalation form is triamcinolone acetonide (TAA), of which there is a non-chlorofluorocarbon aerosol. The acetonide and hexacetonide are insoluble injectable forms of triamcinolone, which solubilize gradually and have a prolonged duration of action. Adverse effects such as cortisol suppression and loss of bone density are only observed with the highest recommended dose of TAA (1200-1600 μg/day). The aerosol (440 μg/day) and aqueous (220 μ g/day) forms of TAA are safe and effective in the treatment of seasonal and perennial rhinitis in adults, adolescents and pediatric patients. In treating rhinitis, TAA is more effective than antihistamines such as astemizole and loratidine, and is equieffective with another corticosteroid, fluticasone propionate. Most patients with chronic, moderately severe asthma can be treated adequately with TAA 200-800 μg/day. TAA is effective for asthma that is poorly controlled by short acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonists. Other corticosteroids, namely fluticasone propionate and beclomethasone dipropionate, may be superior to TAA in the treatment of bronchial asthma. The use of low dose TAA in combination with the long acting β @sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonist salmeterol is effective and avoids the systemic side effects associated with high-dose TAA. Although TAA does not improve forced expiratory volume (FEV) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), it does reduce respiratory symptoms, visits to the physician, and airways reactivity. In rheumatoid arthritis and many arthritis-like conditions, long acting triamcinolone hexacetonide injected into the local area is a very useful treatment. TAA is also useful in diseases of the eye (uveitis, macular degeneration recalcitrant and vernal keratoconjunctivitis), and also as treatment for many dermatological inflammatory and proliferative conditions.

doi:10.1016/j.jep.2011.06.046
Title:A modified formulation of Chinese traditional medicine improves memory impairment and reduces Aβ level in the Tg-APPswe/PS1dE9 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease
Authors:S. JeonS. BoseJ. HurK. JunY.-K. KimK.S. ChoB.-S. Koo
Absract:Ethnopharmacological relevance: SuHeXiang Wan (SHXW), a Chinese traditional medicine has been used orally for the treatment of seizures, infantile convulsion, stroke and so forth. Previously, we reported the effects of modified SHXW essential oil mixture of the fragrance containing herbs on the sedative effect, anticonvulsant property and antioxidative activity after fragrance inhalation. Materials and Methods: This study was undertaken to evaluate beneficial effects of a modified recipe of SHXW (termed as KSOP1009) consisting of a ethanol extract of 8 herbs including resin of Liquidambar orientalis Miller, seed of Myristica fragrans Houtt., rhizome of Cnidium officinale Makino, lumber of Santalum album L., fructus of Piper longum L., flower buds of Eugenia caryophyllata Merrill et Perry, pollen of Typha orientalis Presl., and root of Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge in the neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). The transgenic mice of AD, Tg-APPswe/PS1dE9, were fed KSOP1009 or as a positive control, donepezil for 3 months from 4.5 months of age. Behavioral, immunological and ELISA analyses were used to assess memory impairment, Aβ accumulation and plaque deposition in the brain. Other in vitro works were performed to examine whether KSOP1009 inhibits the Aβ@sub_begin1-42@sub_end-induced neurotoxicity in human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y cells. Results: Intake of KSOP1009 improved the Aβ-induced memory impairment and suppressed Aβ levels and plaque deposition in the brain of Tg-APPswe/PS1dE9 mice as much as that of donepezil treatment. KSOP1009 prevented the down-regulation of phospho-CREB and increased AKT phosphorylation in the AD-like brains. Moreover, KSOP1009 suppresses Aβ-induced apoptosis and ROS production in SH-SY5Y cells. Conclusion: The present study suggests that KSOP1009 may develop as a therapeutic drug for treatment of AD patients. © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd All rights reserved.

pui:19043741
Title:Preclinical toxicology and pharmacology of dimethylacetamide, with clinical notes
Authors:S.-N. Kim
Absract:Pharmacologic and toxicologic profiles as well as potential chemotherapeutic efficacy of DMA were evaluated in view of the fact that DMA is used as a vehicle in a number of pharmaceutical formulations, including Amsacrine and several other anticancer chemotherapeutic drugs. The major pharmacologic, toxicologic, and chemotherapeutic effects are briefly summarized as following: Toxicity: DMA has a low order of acute toxicity, with median lethal values ranging from 2.2 to 4.9 g/kg in mice and from 2.0 to 7.5 g/kg in rats, depending upon the route of administration. Target Organ Toxicity: Elevation of liver transaminases and alkaline phosphatase levels with microscopic evidence of hepatocellular damage as well as jaundice and diarrhea were reported in dogs exposed to DMA by repeated dermal application, or by single or repeated intravenous doses. Mild toxicity to the lymphoid tissue and testes as well as hepatotoxicity were also reported in rats exposed to DMA by inhalation. Myelotoxicity was reported only in rats. In man, gastrointestinal toxicity, hepatic toxicity, hypotension, and mental excitatory states were reported in patients receiving DMA as a single therapeutic agent at daily doses of 400 mg/kg for 4-5 days. These effects were reversible upon cessation of treatment. Cardiac Effects: DMA produced a marked positive dose-related inotropic response in guinea pig left atrial preparations and caused a precipitous decline in tension at concentrations above those causing maximum contractility. Transient hypotension was observed in dogs and cats at single intravenous doses of 236 mg/kg while in patients, a daily dose of 400 mg/kg for 4 or 5 consecutive days caused hypotension 1 to 3 days after cessation of therapy. Antineoplastic Effects: DMA induced differentiation of murine as well as human leukemia cells in vitro and antitumor effects in vivo in mice and cancer patients. Eye and Skin Irritation: DMA is not a skin sensitizer although it is a mild-to-moderate irritant to the cornea or skin in rabbits, mice, and dogs at high concentrations. It was not an irritant when used to enhance dermal penetration of steroids and griseofulvin. Reproductive Toxicity: DMA is primarily embryotoxic in rats and rabbits, and weakly teratogenic in both species when pregnant females are administered DMA during gestation periods, often at maternally toxic doses. Mutagenicity and Carcinogenicity: DMA has not been shown to be mutagenic or carcinogenic. The recommended total dosage of Amsacrine for each 3- to 5-day course of therapy is 375 to 625 mg/m@sup_begin2@sup_end. Based on this therapeutic regimen, the total DMA administered as Amsacrine-DMA lactate formulation is estimated to range between 57.3 and 159.4 g for patients with body weight of 70 kg and body surface area of 1.7 m@sup_begin2@sup_end. In light of demonstrated target organ toxicity in several laboratory animal species and man, DMA at large doses - as used in the treatment of malignancies - is anticipated to exert additive toxicity in lymphoid tissue, liver, gastrointestinal tract, and gonads. Acute cardiac effects are also possible. However, the antitumor activity shown against murine as well as human tumors is a desirable chemotherapeutic adjuvant effect, making its use as a vehicle for anticancer drug formulation justified.

pui:40542550
Title:Liquid-spray or dry-powder systems for inhaled delivery of peptide and proteins?
Authors:L. Garcia-ContrerasH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:Non-invasive delivery systems are desirable for routine administration of therapeutic protein and peptides. The large absorptive surface area of the lungs, thin alveolar epithelial barrier, and extensive vasculature makes the pulmonary route a promising option. For many years, drug delivery to the lungs has been achieved by nebulizers and metered dose inhalers. Two rapidly expanding fields of aerosol drug delivery are liquid-spray systems and dry-powder delivery systems. The selection of an aerosolization system for protein and peptide active compounds will be driven by several inter-related factors that include: physicochemical properties of the macromolecule, the principle of aerosolization of the device, and patient- and disease-related properties. Although novel liquid spray systems may have aerosol and delivery advantages over current inhalation aerosol technologies, rigorous scientific evaluation has not yet been performed due to the relatively recent introduction of these systems. Alternatively, dry-powder inhaler systems for protein and peptide therapeutics have undergone significantly more scientific evaluation. Dry-powder systems for protein and peptide therapeutics may have stability and sterility advantages. However, with currently used excipients and passive dispersion mechanisms, these devices are relatively inefficient. A convergence of improved particle manufacturing methods and technologies with active dispersion technologies may lead to more efficient delivery options. Alongside these delivery considerations, issues pertaining to economic viability, regulatory approval, and patient factors are equally important for selection of an appropriate delivery system. Thus, with our current understanding, there is no acceptable decision tree or algorithm that can be used to derive the most appropriate device technology for inhaled protein and peptide therapy. This review aims to provide guidance to select the best formulation alternative to deliver a candidate protein/peptide drug through the pulmonary route. © 2005 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.07.017
Title:Formulation of a novel fixed dose combination of salmeterol xinafoate and mometasone furoate for inhaled drug delivery
Authors:S. LiuA.B. WattsJ. DuA. BuiS. HengsawasJ.I. PetersR.O. Williams
Absract:Co-administration of an inhaled corticosteroid and long acting beta agonist for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease has reduced mortality compared to either drug alone. This combination reduces exacerbations, hospitalization, emergency department visits and health care costs. A novel fixed-dose combination of the long acting beta-2 agonist salmeterol xinafoate (SX) and the corticosteroid mometasone furoate (MF) were prepared in a composite particle formulation as brittle matrix powder (BMP) and investigated for suitability as an inhaled combination product. In this study, BMP fixed dose combinations of SX and MF with or without stabilizing excipients (lactose, mannitol, glycine and trehalose) were prepared and characterized with respect to their thermal properties, morphology, aerodynamic performance and physical stability. BMP combination formulations of SX and MF exhibited improved aerodynamic properties when delivered by dry powder inhalation as compared to the micronized blends of the same substances. Aerodynamic evaluation was carried out by next generation pharmaceutical impactor (NGI) with a marketed DPI device. Results demonstrated that co-deposition occurred when SX and MF were formulated together as composite particles in a BMP, while physical blends resulted in inconsistent deposition and dose uniformity. As a result of the bottom-up particle engineering approach, combination BMP formulations allow for dual API composite formulations to be dispersed as aerosolized particles. Aerosolized BMP combination formulations resulted in delivered dose uniformity and co-deposition of each API. Further, an excipient-free formulation, BMP SXMF, delivered approximately 50% of the loaded dose in the respirable range and demonstrated stability at ambient conditions for 6 months. Single dose 24-h pharmacokinetic studies in rats demonstrated that lung tissue deposition and blood circulation (AUC@sub_begin0-24h@sub_end) of two APIs were higher for the BMP combination group exhibiting a significantly higher lung concentration of drugs than for the crystalline physical blend. While high system drug levels are generally undesirable in lung targeted therapies, high blood levels in this rodent study could be indicative of increased pulmonary tissue exposure using BMP formulations.

doi:10.1080/00325481.2020.1824967
Title:Abuse of XTAMPZA® ER relative to other opioid analgesics
Authors:S. SevertsonH. OlsenJ. IwanickiR. Dart
Absract:Purpose Extended-release (ER) oxycodone products are schedule II opioid analgesics designed to provide steady pain relief over several hours. However, these products can become preferred drugs for abuse because they contain a large amount of active pharmaceutical ingredient. Some individuals who abuse ER oxycodone tamper with the medication in order to bypass the controlled-release mechanism to release the entire amount of drug in a short period of time. Products that are more difficult to manipulate may be effective at reducing abuse via tampering and/or unintended routes of administration. XTAMPZA® ER is an abuse deterrent ER oxycodone product that uses DETERx® technology designed to discourage tampering. Studies suggest that XTAMPZA ER maintains ER properties after physical manipulation and administration via the oral or nasal routes. The FDA has granted XTAMPZA ER abuse-deterrent labeling with respect to oral, nasal, and intravenous routes of administration. This study compares rates of abuse and misuse of XTAMPZA ER to other ER opioid analgesics and other forms of oxycodone. Methods Data collected from 2018 through 2019 were analyzed from two Researched Abuse, Diversion and Addiction-Related Surveillance (RADARS®) System data sources: the Poison Center Program and the Treatment Center Programs Combined. The Poison Center Program obtains information on exposures from 53 of 55 poison centers within the United States. Information obtained includes the reason for exposure, the route of administration, and the product involved in the exposure. In the Treatment Center Programs Combined, respondents entering treatment for opioid use disorders complete a questionnaire where they select the drugs they abused in the past month from a list of prescription medications. Respondents are also asked to select the routes by which they administered the product (e.g. snorted, injected). XTAMPZA® ER was compared to two groups: other abuse deterrent formulation (ADF) ER opioids and immediaterelease (IR) oxycodone. ADF ER opioids included OxyContin®, Embeda®, Hysingla® ER, Arymo® ER, and MorphaBond™ ER. In the Poison Center Program, rates of intentional abuse/misuse/ unknown exposures per prescriptions dispensed and morphine equivalent grams dispensed were compared between drug groups. In the Treatment Center Programs Combined, odds of past month abuse adjusted for prescriptions dispensed and morphine equivalent grams dispensed were compared between drug groups. Prescriptions dispensed and morphine equivalent grams dispensed information was obtained from the IQVIA® (Danbury, CT) US-Based Longitudinal Patient Data. The percentage of cases where product and formulation was unknown was high for both programs and different across active pharmaceutical ingredients. Ignoring missing data would lead to biased estimates of differences between drug groups. Using multiple imputation, drug group proportions within observed data were used to estimate missing values by active pharmaceutical ingredient across 50 data sets. Analyses were performed in each of the 50 data sets and estimates averaged. Results From 2018 through 2019, there were 737,565 (increasing by quarter) prescriptions for XTAMPZA ER, 4.8 million (decreasing by quarter) for other ADF ER opioids, and 79 million (decreasing by quarter) for IR oxycodone. In the Poison Center Program, exposure rates per prescription dispensed for comparator opioids were all statistically significantly greater than for XTAMPZA ER. Relative to XTAMPZA ER, the rate ratio for IR oxycodone was 2.55 (95% CI: 1.43 to 4.54, p = 0.002), and other ADF ER opioids was 5.89 (95% CI: 3.25-10.67, p < 0.001). Adjusting for morphine equivalent grams dispensed, the rate ratio for IR oxycodone was 4.19 (95% CI: 2.35-7.45, p < 0.001) and other ADF ERopioids was 4.33 (95% CI: 2.39-7.84, p < 0.001). None of the 30 XTAMPZA ER exposure cases involved injection or inhalation use. In the Treatment Center Programs Combined, the odds of a respondent endorsing other ADF ER opioids was 9.38 (95% CI: 5.99-14.71, p < 0.001) greater than for XTAMPZA ER. Odds of endorsing IR oxycodone was greater than XTAMPZA ER but the difference was not statistically significant (odds ratio (OR) = 1.37, 95% CI: 0.88-2.14, p = 0.162). Odds ratios adjusted for morphine equivalent grams dispensed for all comparator opioids were greater than for XTAMPZA ER: IR oxycodone (OR = 2.22, 95% CI: 1.42-3.48, p < 0.001) and other ADF ER opioids (OR = 6.88, 95% CI: 4.39-10.79, p < 0.001). Of the 21 cases endorsing past month abuse of XTAMPZA ER, 2 cases reported use via injection, 2 report use via inhalation in the past month. The proportion of cases reporting abuse through unintended routes was lower than comparators. Conclusions Abuse and misuse exposures involving XTAMPZA ER reported to poison centers and XTAMPZA ER abuse cases among individual entering treatment for opioid use disorders are infrequent relative to comparators. No abuse or misuse of XTAMPZA ER via unintended routes of administration was reported in the Poison Center Program. The proportion of cases involving use via unintended routes of administration tended to be lower for XTAMPZA ER than for comparator drug groups among individuals entering treatment for opioid use disorders. A notable limitation of these analyses is that abuse of specific products is self-reported. In the Treatment Center Programs Combined, even if false positive endorsements on the survey are rare they are more likely to disproportionately inflate estimates of less common products such as XTAMPZA ER than more commonly prescribed comparators. Noting these limitations, continued monitoring in these surveillance systems can aid in identifying changes in abuse and misuse of XTAMPXA ER and other opioid analgesics.

doi:10.2165/00002018-200326120-00003
Title:Safety and tolerability profiles of intranasal antihistamines and intranasal corticosteroids in the treatment of allergic rhinitis
Authors:R.J. SalibP.H. Howarth
Absract:Intranasal corticosteroids and intranasal antihistamines are efficacious topical therapies in the treatment of allergic rhinitis. This review addresses their relative roles in the management of this disease, focusing on their safety and tolerability profiles. The intranasal route of administration delivers drug directly to the target organ, thereby minimising the potential for the systemic adverse effects that may be evident with oral therapy. Furthermore, the topical route of delivery enables the use of lower doses of medication. Such therapies, predominantly available as aqueous formulations following the ban of chlorofluorocarbon propellants, have minimal local adverse effects. Intranasal application of therapy can induce sneezing in the hyper-reactive nose, and transient local irritation has been described with certain formulations. Intranasal administration of corticosteroids is associated with minor nose bleeding in a small proportion of recipients. This effect has been attributed to the vasoconstrictor activity of the corticosteroid molecules, and is considered to account for the very rare occurrence of nasal septal perforation. Nasal biopsy studies do not show any detrimental structural effects within the nasal mucosa with long-term administration of intranasal corticosteroids. Much attention has focused on the systemic safety of intranasal application. When administered at standard recommended therapeutic dosage, the intranasal antihistamines do not cause significant sedation or impairment of psychomotor function, effects that would be evident when these agents are administered orally at a therapeutically relevant dosage. The systemic bioavailability of intranasal corticosteroids varies from <1% to up to 40-50% and influences the risk of systemic adverse effects. Because the dose delivered topically is small, this is not a major consideration, and extensive studies have not identified significant effects on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis with continued treatment. A small effect on growth has been reported in one study in children receiving a standard dosage over 1 year, however. This has not been found in prospective studies with the intranasal corticosteroids that have low systemic bioavailability and therefore the judicious choice of intranasal formulation, particularly if there is concurrent corticosteroid inhalation for asthma, is prudent. There is no evidence that such considerations are relevant to shorter-term use, such as in intermittent or seasonal disease. Intranasal therapy, which represents a major mode of drug delivery in allergic rhinitis, thus has a very favourable benefit/risk ratio and is the preferred route of administration for corticosteroids in the treatment of this disease, as well as an important option for antihistaminic therapy, particularly if rapid symptom relief is required.

doi:10.1186/s12890-020-1104-3
Title:Enabling pulmonary delivery of siRNA in cystic fibrosis lung inflammation: Therapeutic potential of hybrid lipid/polymer nanoparticles
Authors:I. D'AngeloG. CostabileG. ConteD. BaldassiE. MitidieriR. d'Emmanuele di Villa BiancaF. QuagliaP. BroccaE. FiscarelliR. SorrentinoO.M. MerkelF. Ungaro
Absract:Background and rationale The down-regulation of genes directly involved in the pathogenesis of severe lung diseases through pulmonary delivery of short RNA fragments, also known as siRNA, has gained recently remarkable research interest, especially in cystic fibrosis (CF) [1]. Nevertheless, the unsuccessful history of inhaled siRNA points out the urgent need of an appropriate formulation strategy to move them from the laboratory to the bedside [2]. Hypothesis and objectives The generation of breakthrough technologies and their translation into new pharmaceutical products is crucial for CF treatment. During previous FFC#23/2017 project, the most adequate formulation conditions to produce inhalable hybrid nanoparticles (hNPs) made up of a combination of lipids and polymers for siRNA delivery were identified. The developed hNPs displayed optimal aerosolization properties, were stable in simulated mucus and efficiently entrapped a siRNA pool against one of the most critical signals in evoking the inflammatory response in CF, the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). The aim of the present project is to go in depth into the in vitro/in vivo therapeutic potential of optimised hNPs. Essential methods hNPs delivering a siRNA pool against NF-κB were prepared from biodegradable polymers and biocompatible phospholipids [3]. The behaviour of hNPs upon contact with simulated mucus and human sputum from CF was evaluated through a combination of techniques. Uptake and efficacy of siRNA-loaded hNPs were evaluated in different human airway cell culture models, providing a tool to optimise hNP properties for in vivo pulmonary delivery. In vivo studies were performed in rats challenged intratracheally with LPS from E. Coli to induce pulmonary inflammation. Results In vitro studies demonstrated that the developed siRNA-loaded hNPs may penetrate lung extracellular barriers, as CF mucus, allowing a significantly higher uptake in human bronchial epithelial cells as compared to both free siRNA and siRNA/lipofectamine complexes. As a result, significant NF-κB downregulation up to 72 h was observed in human bronchial epithelial cells treated with optimised siRNAloaded hNPs. Finally, preliminary efficacy studies upon intratracheal administration in LPS-challenged rats highlighted the potential of the developed siRNA-loaded to downregulate NF-κB also in vivo. Conclusions The correct operating conditions to produce nanoparticles for prolonged release of siRNA in CF lung have been identified. Optimized nanoparticles can move to further in vivo preclinical studies, which are essential to translate the technology under development from labs to the clinics. The development of a siRNA delivery system already engineered for in vivo inhalation and transfection might shorten the time to translation to patients, providing a therapeutic platform to address multiple targets that are still considered 'undruggable' in CF..

doi:10.1016/j.addr.2013.07.020
Title:Nanotechnology and pulmonary delivery to overcome resistance in infectious diseases
Authors:F. AndradeD. RafaelM. VideiraD. FerreiraA. SosnikB. Sarmento
Absract:Used since ancient times especially for the local treatment of pulmonary diseases, lungs and airways are a versatile target route for the administration of both local and systemic drugs. Despite the existence of different platforms and devices for the pulmonary administration of drugs, only a few formulations are marketed, partly due to physiological and technological limitations.Respiratory infections represent a significant burden to health systems worldwide mainly due to intrahospital infections that more easily affect immune-compromised patients. Moreover, tuberculosis (TB) is an endemic infectious disease in many developing nations and it has resurged in the developed world associated with the human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) epidemic.Currently, medicine faces the specter of antibiotic resistance. Besides the development of new anti-infectious drugs, the development of innovative and more efficient delivery systems for drugs that went off patent appears as a promising strategy pursued by the pharmaceutical industry to improve the therapeutic outcomes and to prolong the utilities of their intellectual property portfolio. In this context, nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems (nano-DDS) emerged as a promising approach to circumvent the limitations of conventional formulations and to treat drug resistance, opening the hypothesis for new developments in this area. © 2013 Elsevier B.V.

pui:633657309
Title:Interim results of phase 1/2a clinical study of ar-501, an investigational inhaled formulation of gallium citrate being evaluated as an antibacterial in cystic fibrosis patients
Authors:A. CohenM. KankamP. MendelmanmH. JafriM. Stevens-BroganC. PlascenciaL. DeansA. KelsonP. LovalentiJ. WooV. Truong
Absract:Objectives: To report the safety results of healthy volunteers receiving a single dose or weekly dose regimen of three ascending inhaled dosages of gallium citrate (Ga: AR-501). Methods: AR-501 represents a broad acting antimicrobial with a mechanism of action involving interference with iron and disruption of microbial iron-dependent metabolic pathways. In vitro data and pre-clinical in vivo data showed antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria and a low drug resistance profile. Study AR-501-001 (www.clinicaltrials. gov identifier NCT03669614) is a Phase 1/2a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical study evaluating the safety and pharmacokinetics (PK) of inhaled AR-501 in healthy volunteers and preliminary efficacy in Pseudomonas aeruginosa infected cystic fibrosis (CF) subjects. AR-501 or placebo is delivered by a high efficiency nebulizer device. In the Phase 1 arm, 50 healthy adults were randomized and treated in 6 cohorts to receive either a single ascending dose regimen (SAD, Cohorts 1, 2, and 3 [N=24]) or a 5-dose regimen administered weekly (Multiple Ascending Dose [MAD], Cohorts 4, 5, and 6 [N=26]) of active drug at 6.4 mg Ga, 20 mg Ga and 40 mg Ga or placebo. Participants were randomized within each cohort in a 3:1 ratio of active drug to placebo. Subjects were followed for 28 days after last study dose Results: AR-501 aerosols were well tolerated, with no serious adverse events (SAEs) or Grade 3 or Grade 4 adverse events (AEs) reported over the 28-day study period for the SAD cohorts, or 56-day study period for the MAD cohorts. PK data in SAD cohorts showed mean plasma half-life values ranging 67-114 hours with Cmax occurring between 2-6 hours. Subjects receiving 5 weekly doses showed consistent, dose-related, Ga serum levels 4h post-dose. Ctrough values indicated that steady-state conditions were attained by administration of the 5th weekly dose (Day 35). All AEs were Grade 1 or Grade 2 in severity and resolved. The most common AEs were localized respiratory events observed in both AR-501 and placebo recipients. AR-501 SAD combined groups had higher Treatment Emergent AEs (TEAEs)(16/18 [88.8%]) compared with placebo (3/6 [50%]), while AR-501 MAD combined groups had similar TEAEs (13/19 [68.4%]) compared with placebo (5/7 [71.4%]). Transient changes in % predicted FEV1, as measured by spirometry, were observed in both AR-501 and placebo recipients and these were not found to be dosage or dose dependent. The Phase 1 safety monitoring committee and the CF Foundation drug safety monitoring board each support proceeding to the Phase 2a arm in CF adult subjects. Conclusions: The Phase 1 study results of inhaled AR-501 in healthy subjects was generally well tolerated at dosages up to 40 mg Ga by inhalation once weekly (for 5 weeks). Further evaluation of safety and preliminary efficacy in adults with CF infected with P. aeruginosa is scheduled to begin in the second half of 2020.

doi:10.2165/00148581-200305100-00004
Title:Treatment of Childhood Asthma: How Do the Available Options Compare?
Authors:D. CoghlanC. Powell
Absract:The National Asthma Council of Australia suggests that "the aim of preventive therapy should be to enable patients to enjoy a normal life (comparable with that of non-asthmatic children), with the least amount of medication and at minimal risk of adverse events. The level of maintenance therapy should be determined by symptom control and lung function in the interval periods." The British Thoracic Society/Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network states that the aims of the pharmacological treatment of asthma should be to control symptoms, prevent exacerbations and achieve the best possible lung function with minimal adverse effects. We have used the current published international guidelines to highlight the international differences in management recommendations, and compared the possible pharmacological options with a focus on the above ideals. Cromones have been used for many years in childhood asthma. Most evidence suggests they now have little role. Regarding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), beclomethasone and budesonide are essentially similar in their efficacy. Fluticasone propionate is equally as effective at one-half the equivalent dose of budesonide or beclomethasone. Adverse effects are rare in dosages <400 μg/day of budesonide and beclomethasone or <200 μg/day of fluticasone propionate, but may occur in individual patients. Relevant clinical adverse effects are rare and pharmacological systemic effects are less noticeable with budesonide and fluticasone propionate than with beclomethasone, but data are conflicting. Long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor agonists (β@sub_begin2@sub_end- agonists) are recommended once low-dose ICS have failed to control symptoms. The main pharmacological difference between the agents is that formoterol is a full β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenergic agonist, whereas salmeterol is a partial agonist at the β@sub_begin2@sub_end-adrenoceptor and has a unique pharmacological action. The main clinical distinction between these two agents is that their onset of bronchodilation differs. Bronchodilation begins at about 3 minutes after inhalation of formoterol, which is similar to the short-acting agents, whereas salmeterol has a much slower onset of action at about 15-30 minutes. The many in vitro differences between the two drugs are probably not clinically relevant. There are no comparative pediatric data on the leukotriene modifiers to make clear recommendations.

doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004877.pub2
Title:Chinese medicinal herbs for sore throat
Authors:Y. ShiR. GuC. LiuJ. NiT. Wu
Absract:Background: Chinese herbal medicines are commonly used to treat sore throat in China and among Chinese people worldwide. Their efficacy in treating sore throat has not previously been systematically reviewed. Objectives: To assess the efficacy and safety of Chinese herbal medicines for patients with sore throat. Search strategy: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library, Issue 3, 2006) which contains the Acute Respiratory Infections Group's specialised register; MEDLINE (1966 to August 2006); EMBASE (1980 to August 2006); AMED (1985 to August 2006); the Chinese Biomedical Database (CBM) (1975 to August 2006), and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) (1994 to August 2006). Selection criteria: We only included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) assessing Chinese herbal medicines for the treatment of sore throat with the outcomes of recovery, inefficacy, and adverse events. Data collection and analysis: One review author contacted the trial authors of claimed RCTs. Three review authors extracted and analysed the data. Main results: Seven trials involving 1253 participants were included. All trials were identified as being of methodologically poor quality (C category). All of the Chinese herbal preparations in this review were inadequately characterised and were assessed in one trial only. It is highly likely that there was selection bias or detection bias, or both, in all of the included trials. Conflict of interest may have been another factor in producing a positive result in three studies as the prepared drugs were made in the trial author's hospital. We did not perform a meta-analysis and the results of the studies are reported separately. Three formulations were shown to be superior to the control in improving recovery: Ertong Qingyan Jiere Koufuye was more effective than Fufang Shuanghua Koufuye for acute pharyngitis (OR 1.54, 95% Cl 1.11 to 5.74); Yanhouling mixture was more effective than the gentamicin atomised inhalation for acute pharyngitis (OR 5.39, 95% CI 2.69 to 10.81) for acute pharyngitis; and Qinganlan Liyan Hanpian was more effective than Fufang Caoshanhu Hanpian for chronic pharyngitis (OR 2.25, 95% CI 1.08 to 4.67). Four four formulations were shown to be equal in efficacy to the control. Authors' conclusions: Based on the existing evidence included in this review, the efficacy of Chinese herbal medicine for treating sore throat is controversial and questionable. We cannot recommend any kind of Chinese medical herbal formulation as an effective remedy for sore throat, due to the lack of high quality clinical trials. Copyright © 2008 The Cochrane Collaboration. Published by JohnWiley & Sons, Ltd.

doi:10.1111/bcp.14166
Title:A phase 1/1b study of PUR1900, an inhaled formulation of itraconazole, in healthy volunteers and asthmatics to study safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics
Authors:D.L. HavaL. TanP. JohnsonA.K. CurranJ. PerryS. KramerK. KaneP. BedwellG. LaytonC. SwannD. HendersonN. KhanL. ConnorL. McKenzieD. SinghJ. Roach
Absract:Aims: Oral itraconazole has variable pharmacokinetics and risks of adverse events associated with high plasma exposure. An inhalation formulation of itraconazole (PUR1900) is being developed to treat allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, an allergic inflammatory disease occurring in asthmatics and patients with cystic fibrosis. Methods: A 3-part, open-label Phase 1 study was conducted to evaluate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of PUR1900. Healthy volunteers (n = 5–6/cohort) received either single (Part 1) or multiple (Part 2) ascending doses of PUR1900 for up to 14 days. In Part 3 stable, adult asthmatics received a single dose of 20 mg PUR1900 or 200 mg of oral Sporanox (itraconazole oral solution) in a 2-period randomized cross-over design. Itraconazole plasma and sputum concentrations were evaluated. Results: None of the adverse events considered as at least possibly related to study treatment were moderate or severe, and none were classed as serious. The most common was the infrequent occurrence of mild cough. Itraconazole plasma exposure increased with increasing doses of PUR1900. After 14 days, PUR1900 resulted in plasma exposure (area under the concentration–time curve up to 24 h) 106- to 400-fold lower across doses tested (10–35 mg) than steady-state exposure reported for oral Sporanox 200 mg. In asthmatics, PUR1900 geometric mean maximum sputum concentrations were 70-fold higher and geometric mean plasma concentrations were 66-fold lower than with oral Sporanox. Conclusion: PUR1900 was safe and well-tolerated under the study conditions. Compared to oral dosing, PUR1900 achieved higher lung and lower plasma exposure. The pharmacokinetic profile of PUR1900 suggests the potential to improve upon the efficacy and safety profile observed with oral itraconazole.

doi:10.1016/S0149-2918(02)85135-9
Title:Formoterol as dry powder oral inhalation compared with salbutamol metered-dose inhaler in acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Authors:M. CazzolaM. D'AmatoC. CalifanoF. Di PernaF. CalderaroM.G. MateraG. D'Amato
Absract:Background: Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are managed with increased doses or frequency of the patient's existing bronchodilator therapy. The use of formoterol in the treatment of mild acute exacerbations of COPD has been suggested; however, a comparison of cumulative doses of formoterol with salbutamol, the gold standard bronchodilator agent for this pathologic condition, is still lacking. Objective: The aim of the study was to compare the inhaled beta@sub_begin2@sub_end-agonists salbutamol (rapid onset, short duration of action) and formoterol (rapid onset, long duration of action), both used as needed in patients attending outpatient clinics because of mild acute exacerbations of COPD (Anthonisen exacerbation type I or II). Methods: A dose-response curve to formoterol via Turbuhaler® or salbutamol via pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) was constructed. On 2 consecutive days, the patients received, in randomized order, both of the following active dose regimens: A = 12 + 12 + 24 μg formoterol via Turbuhaler (48-μg cumulative metered dose); B = 200 + 200 + 400 μg salbutamol via pMDI (800-μg cumulative metered dose). Dose increments were given at 30-minute intervals, with measurements made 25 minutes after each dose. The maximum forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) value during the dose-response curve to formoterol or salbutamol was chosen as the primary outcome variable to compare the 2 treatments. Oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry (SpO@sub_begin2@sub_end) and pulse rate were also measured at each assessment period. Every adverse event, either reported spontaneously by the patients or observed by the investigators, was recorded. Results: Sixteen patients (2 women, 14 men) aged 51 to 77 years (most older than 65 years) participated in the study. Both formoterol and salbutamol induced a large, significant, dose-dependent increase in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, inspiratory capacity (IC), and forced vital capacity (FVC). There was no significant difference between FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end, IC, and FVC values after 48 μg formoterol and 800 μg salbutamol. There was no significant difference in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end after 24 μg formoterol and 800 μg salbutamol; however, the difference in FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end after 24 and 48 μg formoterol was significant. Neither heart rate (mean differences from baseline after 48 μg formoterol, 1.9 beats/min [95% CI, -3.4, 7.2] and 800 μg salbutamol, 3.7 beats/min [95% CI, -1.1, 8.5]) nor SpO@sub_begin2@sub_end (mean percentage differences from baseline after 48 μg formoterol, -0.37% [95% CI, -1.22, 0.47] and 800 μg salbutamol, -0.75% [95% CI, -1.73, 0.23]) changed significantly. However, SpO@sub_begin2@sub_end decreased below 90% in 2 patients after the highest dose of formoterol and in 1 patient after the highest dose of salbutamol. Conclusions: In this small, selected group of patients with mild acute exacerbations of COPD, formoterol via Turbuhaler induced a fast bronchodilation that was dose dependent and not significantly different from that caused by salbutamol. Furthermore, formoterol appeared to be as well tolerated as salbutamol.

doi:10.2165/00003495-200666070-00019
Title:Inhaled human insulin (Exubera®): A review of its use in adult patients with diabetes mellitus
Authors:C. DunnM.P. Curran
Absract:Inhaled human insulin (Exubera® (insulin human [rDNA origin]) Inhalation Powder) has recently been approved in the European Union and the US for preprandial use in adult patients with diabetes mellitus. This formulation of insulin has a more rapid onset, but similar duration, of glucose-lowering activity compared with subcutaneously administered regular human insulin. Preprandial inhaled human insulin provided glycaemic control that was comparable to preprandial subcutaneous regular insulin when added to long- or intermediate-acting subcutaneous basal insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Inhaled human insulin is also effective when administered alone, when combined with oral antihyperglycaemic therapy, or when combined with basal subcutaneous insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Comparable rates of hypoglycaemia occurred in patients treated with inhaled human insulin and in those treated with subcutaneous regular human insulin. Patients treated with inhaled human insulin demonstrated a greater decline in pulmonary function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end], carbon monoxide diffusing capacity [DL@sub_beginCO@sub_end]) than patients treated with comparator antihyperglycaemic agents; the mean difference between the treatment groups that favoured the comparators was noted within the first several weeks of treatment, and did not change over a 2-year treatment period. This agent has also been associated with significant improvements in some quality-of-life and treatment satisfaction scores, especially when compared with subcutaneous mealtime insulin regimens. Inhaled human insulin is an effective and well tolerated formulation suitable for preprandial use in combination with basal subcutaneous insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes. It is also well tolerated and effective in patients with type 2 diabetes when administered alone, when combined with oral antihyperglycaemic therapy, or when combined with basal subcutaneous insulin. Pharmacological Properties: In healthy volunteers and in patients with diabetes, plasma concentrations of insulin increase more rapidly after administration of inhaled human insulin than after a subcutaneous injection of regular human insulin. With inhaled human insulin, the maximal antihyperglycaemic effect occurred after approximately 2 hours, and the duration of action was around 6 hours. Inhaled human insulin had a significantly faster onset of glucose-lowering effect than subcutaneous regular insulin (p < 0.001). Times to maximal glucose-lowering effect were comparable for inhaled human insulin and the rapid-acting insulin lispro, but shorter for inhaled than for regular insulin (p < 0.01). The duration of glucose-lowering effect of inhaled human insulin was comparable to that of subcutaneously administered regular insulin, but longer than that of subcutaneously administered insulin lispro (p < 0.01). Intra-individual reproducibility of glycaemic response is at least as good as that with subcutaneous regular insulin. Cigarette smoking substantially increases systemic exposure to inhaled human insulin; inhaled human insulin is contra-indicated in patients who smoke or who have smoked 6 months prior to starting therapy. Therapeutic Efficacy: In 24-week phase III trials in patients with type 1 diabetes treated with basal insulin, the reduction in glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end) values (0.1-0.5 percentage points from baseline) in recipients of preprandial inhaled human insulin was comparable to that with subcutaneous regular insulin. The percentage of patients achieving HbA @sub_begin1c@sub_end values of <7% was comparable between the two treatment groups. In patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with diet and exercise alone, HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end values below 8% were achieved in 83% of patients treated with inhaled human insulin. Mean HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end values were reduced by 2.3% over the 24 weeks of treatment. Mean HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end reductions were maintained to a greater extent with inhaled human insulin than with oral antihyperglycaemic treatment in a 104-week extension study in type 2 diabetic patients not responding to oral antihyperglycaemic monotherapy. In patients with type 2 diabetes poorly controlled by combination oral antihyperglycaemic therapy, reductions in HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end levels from baseline were significantly greater with inhaled human insulin (as monotherapy or in combination with oral antihyperglycaemic agents) than with oral antihyperglycaemic agents alone. Use of inhaled human insulin before meals with basal ultralente insulin at bedtime was similar to treatment with mixed subcutaneous neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH)/regular insulin in controlling HbA@sub_begin1c@sub_end in patients with type 2 diabetes previously treated with subcutaneous insulin. Inhaled human insulin was associated with significant improvements in some quality-of-life and treatment satisfaction scores in patients with diabetes, especially when compared with subcutaneous mealtime insulin regimens. Tolerability: Rates of hypoglycaemia were comparable in recipients of inhaled human insulin or subcutaneous regular insulin in randomised clinical trials. Treatment of diabetic patients with inhaled human insulin was generally associated with increases in bodyweight (0.1-3.6kg); however, the increase was numerically less than that with subcutaneous regular insulin. Patients treated with inhaled human insulin demonstrated a greater decline in pulmonary function (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end and DL@sub_beginCO@sub_end) than patients treated with comparator antihyperglycaemic agents. The mean difference between the treatment groups that favoured the comparators was noted within the first several weeks of treatment, and did not change over a 2-year treatment period. It is recommended that patients should have pulmonary function assessments prior to initiating inhaled insulin therapy and at periodic intervals thereafter. An increased incidence of cough, which occurs within seconds to minutes of inhalation, has been reported, but this has been of mild to moderate severity and has tended to decrease in frequency over time. Greater insulin antibody production with inhaled human insulin than with subcutaneous regular human insulin given at mealtimes has been reported in patients with diabetes, but this appears to have no clinical relevance in terms of glycaemic control or pulmonary function. © 2006 Adis Data Information BV. All rights reserved.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.02.031
Title:Inhaled proteins: Challenges and perspectives
Authors:F. DepreterG. PilcerK. Amighi
Absract:Due to recent developments in biochemical engineering and in the understanding of the physiopathology of many diseases, therapeutic biologics are expected to become of increasing importance. Pulmonary delivery of these proteins could constitute an attractive, non-invasive alternative to parenteral delivery. It can be considered for either topical use for treating lung diseases or for systemic use for treating a variety of other diseases. However, administration of proteins to the lungs presents several challenges such as the need for appropriate formulation strategies to overcome high inter-particle interactions and physico-chemical degradation that can lead to loss of biological activity and/or safety issues. In addition, various lung clearance mechanisms have to be avoided to provide a sufficient level of intact protein in the lungs. If systemic action is desired, it is also necessary for the molecule to cross the alveolar epithelium, which is particularly challenging for large proteins with many hydrophilic domains. The purpose of this article is to review the main challenges in the formulation of proteins for inhalation and the possible strategies that can be applied. Because of the particular success of dry formulations in stabilising proteins, there is a special focus on their development, along with the drying techniques and stabilising excipients used. Finally, an overview is given of the existing commercial preparations and of the main clinical developments in inhaled proteins for either topical or systemic applications. © 2013 Elsevier B.V.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2016.1297
Title:The History of Therapeutic Aerosols: A Chronological Review
Authors:S.W. SteinC.G. Thiel
Absract:In 1956, Riker Laboratories, Inc., (now 3 M Drug Delivery Systems) introduced the first pressurized metered dose inhaler (MDI). In many respects, the introduction of the MDI marked the beginning of the modern pharmaceutical aerosol industry. The MDI was the first truly portable and convenient inhaler that effectively delivered drug to the lung and quickly gained widespread acceptance. Since 1956, the pharmaceutical aerosol industry has experienced dramatic growth. The signing of the Montreal Protocol in 1987 led to a surge in innovation that resulted in the diversification of inhaler technologies with significantly enhanced delivery efficiency, including modern MDIs, dry powder inhalers, and nebulizer systems. The innovative inhalers and drugs discovered by the pharmaceutical aerosol industry, particularly since 1956, have improved the quality of life of literally hundreds of millions of people. Yet, the delivery of therapeutic aerosols has a surprisingly rich history dating back more than 3500 years to ancient Egypt. The delivery of atropine and related compounds has been a crucial inhalation therapy throughout this period and the delivery of associated structural analogs remains an important therapy today. Over the centuries, discoveries from many cultures have advanced the delivery of therapeutic aerosols. For thousands of years, therapeutic aerosols were prepared by the patient or a physician with direct oversight of the patient using custom-made delivery systems. However, starting with the Industrial Revolution, advancements in manufacturing resulted in the bulk production of therapeutic aerosol delivery systems produced by people completely disconnected from contact with the patient. This trend continued and accelerated in the 20th century with the mass commercialization of modern pharmaceutical inhaler products. In this article, we will provide a summary of therapeutic aerosol delivery from ancient times to the present along with a look to the future. We hope that you will find this chronological summary intriguing and informative.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2015.1286
Title:Development of Optimized, Inhalable, Gemcitabine-Loaded Gelatin Nanocarriers for Lung Cancer
Authors:S.R. Youngren-OrtizD.B. HillP.R. HoffmannK.R. MorrisE.G. BarrettM.G. ForestM.B. Chougule
Absract:Background: Aerosol delivery of chemotherapeutic nanocarriers represents a promising alternative for lung cancer therapy. This study optimized gemcitabine (Gem)-loaded gelatin nanocarriers (GNCs) cross-linked with genipin (Gem-GNCs) to evaluate their potential for nebulized lung cancer treatment. Methods: Gem-GNCs were prepared by two-step desolvation and optimized through Taguchi design and characterized for physicochemical properties. Particle size and morphology were confirmed by scanning and transmission electron microscopy. In vitro release of Gem from Gem-GNCs performed in Dulbecco's phosphate-buffered saline and simulated lung fluid was evaluated to determine release mechanisms. Particle size stability was assessed under varying pH. Differential scanning calorimetry and powder X-ray diffraction were used to determine the presence and stability of Gem-GNC components and amorphization of Gem, respectively. Gem-GNC efficacy within A549 and H460 cells was evaluated using MTT assays. Mucus rheology upon treatment with Gem-GNCs, lactose, and normal saline control was measured. Andersen cascade impaction identified the aerodynamic particle size distribution of the nebulized formulation. Results: Gem-GNCs had particle size, zeta potential, entrapment efficiency, and loading efficiency of 178 ± 7.1 nm, -18.9 mV, 92.5%, and 9.1%, respectively. The Gem and formulation excipients where molecularly dispersed and configured amorphously. Gem-GNCs were stable at pH 5.4-7.4 for 72 hours. Gem release from Gem-GNCs was governed by non-Fickian controlled release due to diffusion/erosion from a matrix-based nanocarrier. Gem-GNCs elicited a 40% reduction of the complex viscosity η∗(1 Hz) of human bronchial epithelial cell mucus containing 3 wt% solids to mimic mild airway disease. The nebulized Gem-GNCs had a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 2.0 ± 0.16 μm, geometric standard deviation (GSD) of 2.7 ± 0.16, and fine particle fraction (FPF) of 75.2% ± 2.4%. The Gem-GNC formulation did not outperform the Gem solution in A549 cells. However, in H460, Gem-GNCs outperformed the Gem IC50 reduction by ∼5-fold at 48 and 10-fold 72 hours. Conclusion: Stable, effective, and sustained-release Gem-GNCs were developed. The nebulized Gem-GNCs had satisfactory MMAD, GSD, and FPF and the formulation reduced the dynamic complex viscosity of mucus consistent with increased mobility of nanoparticles.

doi:10.1016/j.pupt.2018.01.012
Title:Therapeutic administration of inhaled INS1009, a treprostinil prodrug formulation, inhibits bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats
Authors:M.R. CorbozJ. ZhangD. LaSalaK. DiPetrilloZ. LiV. MalininJ. BrowerP.J. KuehlT.E. BarrettW.R. PerkinsR.W. Chapman
Absract:Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a progressive and lethal disease and while there are now two approved drugs (Esbriet@sup_begin®@sup_end and Ofev@sup_begin®@sup_end) additional effective treatments are still needed. Recently, prostacyclin analogs such as iloprost and treprostinil (TRE) have been shown to exert some protection against bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice when administered in a prophylactic regimen. In this study, we evaluated the effect of the inhaled treprostinil prodrug hexadecyl-treprostinil (C16TR) formulated in a lipid nanoparticle (INS1009) administered therapeutically in a fibrotic rat model. Male Fischer 344 rats challenged with intra-tracheal saline instillation were then treated with daily inhaled phosphate buffered saline (PBS) while rats challenged with bleomycin sulfate (3.5–4.0 mg/kg) instillation were treated with either daily inhaled PBS, daily inhaled INS1009 (10, 30, or 100 μg/kg), or twice-daily orally with the anti-fibrotic compound pirfenidone (100 mg/kg). Dosing started on day 10 post-bleomycin challenge and continued until day 27 after bleomycin. Lungs were harvested 24 h after the last dose of treatment for evaluation of lung hydroxyproline content and pulmonary histology. Lung hydroxyproline content increased from 421 μg/lung lobe in saline challenged and PBS treated animals to 673 μg/lung lobe in bleomycin challenged and PBS treated rats. Treatment of bleomycin challenged rats with 10, 30, or 100 μg/kg INS1009 dose-dependently reduced lung hydroxyproline content to 563, 501, and 451 μg/lung lobe, respectively, and pirfenidone decreased hydroxyproline content to 522 μg/lung lobe. Histologically, both INS1009 (100 μg/kg) and pirfenidone (100 mg/kg) reduced the severity of subepithelial fibrosis. Single dose pharmacokinetic (PK) studies of inhaled INS1009 in bleomycin challenged rats showed dose-dependent increases in lung C16TR concentration and plasma TRE on day 10 post-bleomycin challenge. Multiple dose PK studies of inhaled INS1009 showed dose-dependent increases only in lung C16TR concentration on day 27 post-bleomycin challenge. We also investigated the effects of TRE on the cytokine transforming growth factor-β@sub_begin1@sub_end (TGF-β@sub_begin1@sub_end)-stimulated collagen gene and protein expressions in cultured human lung fibroblasts, assessed by real-time PCR and Sirius Red staining, respectively. In human fibroblasts, TRE (0.001–10 μM) inhibited TGF-β@sub_begin1@sub_end (20 ng/mL)-induced expression of collagen mRNA and protein in a concentration-dependent manner. These results demonstrated that inhaled INS1009, administered in a therapeutic dosing paradigm, dose-dependently (10–100 μg/kg) inhibited bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats. This effect may involve direct actions of TRE in suppressing collagen expression in lung fibroblasts.

doi:10.1080/00325481.2018.1512253
Title:Category 1 assessment: Vaping of abuse deterrent opioid formulations category 1 assessment: Vaping of abuse deterrent opioid formulations
Authors:C. AltomareP. FortA. CostantinoA. BuchalterE. Cone
Absract:Purpose The use of e-cigarettes, also called vaping and more recently JUULing, is a well documented method used to administer nicotine and cannabis products. In 2014, teenage use of vaping devices surpassed that of smoked cigarettes and its prevelance continues to increase across all age groups. Although ecigarettes are not designed with the intent to administer opioid drug products the success of newer e-cigarettes brands and technologies in administering alternative cannabis forms such as herbal, wax and concentrates, indicates other material forms, like ground opioid formulations, might be possible. Some laboratory studies with rodents have reported success with other drug classes, e.g., methamphetamine, MDPV, alphaPVP. Online drug tampering forums mention vaping marketed opioid formulations however, the success of such attemps is mostly undetermined. Questions have been posed by FDA Advisory Committee members regarding the potential for vaping opioids. To address the feasibility of e-cigarette devices to successfully deliver opioids, a laboratory model was developed and tested with pure oxycodone and a marketed abuse-deterrent formulation. Methods A laboratory model was assembled that consisted of a commercial vaping device connected to an air vacuum sampling bag and flow meter control. A preliminary optimization and verification procedure was conducted using pure oxycodone hydrochloride (HCl) diluted to a total volume of 2 mL with 50:50 propylene glycol/vegetable glycerin; for a final concetration of 10 mg/mL in the vaping concentrate. The vaping device was set to VW mode and 100 watts; causing the device to set the maximum watts and automatically apply voltage to avoid damage to the heating coil. The flow rate of air passing through the device was allowed to equilibrate to a range of 1800-2500 mL/min, typical of a human inhalation rate. Once the flow rate reached an acceptable range, the vaping device was turned on for 5 seconds, off for 2 seconds, and then back on for 5 more seconds. The vacuum flow was left on until the vapor ceased and then the tubing was immediately introduced into a collection solvent, thus rinsing the inside of the vapor tubing and collecting the oxycodone residue in the air sampling bag. The contents of the bag were analyzed by LC-MS/MS for total oxycodone recovery. Experiments involving an abuse-deterrent tablet required a 3-5 minute thermal extraction process to yield a concentrated solution of oxycodone, without significant tablet excipient and gelling. The resulting tablet extract was diluted to a total volume of 2 mL with 50:50 propylene glycol/vegetable glycerin; for a final concetration of approximately 10 mg/mL. The vaping procedure optimized using pure oxycodone HCl was applied to the formulation derived vaping concentrate. Results Results from optimization and verification of the laboratory model showed vaporization of oxycodone HCl in the range of 1.6-2.2 mg. When the API measurement is taken in context of the total volume of vaping concentrate vaped, mass difference pre versus post vaping, approximately 57-63% (efficiency) of the oxycodone HCl was successfully transferred to the collection bag. The method was very consistent as shown by a CV < 6%. The same process with the abuse-deterrent formulation showed similar results in the range of 50-60% efficiency. Conclusions Based on this study, a laboratory model and process was developed that successfully utilized a commercial vaporizer to deliver oxycodone vapor (aerosol) derived from a marketed abuse-deterrent formulation in amounts likely to produce pharmacological effects. Given the trending popularity of vaping as a means of drug delivery (nicotine, cannabis), it is feasible that this laboratory method will be realized in the real-world to successfully administer and conceal opioid abuse.

doi:10.1208/s12248-017-0054-z
Title:Challenges and Future Prospects for the Delivery of Biologics: Oral Mucosal, Pulmonary, and Transdermal Routes
Authors:J.O. MoralesK.R. FatheA. BrunaughS. FerratiS. LiM. Montenegro-NicoliniZ. MousavikhameneJ.T. McConvilleM.R. PrausnitzH.D.C. Smyth
Absract:Biologic products are large molecules such as proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, etc., which have already produced many new drugs for clinical use in the last decades. Due to the inherent challenges faced by biologics after oral administration (e.g., acidic stomach pH, digestive enzymes, and limited permeation through the gastrointestinal tract), several alternative routes of administration have been investigated to enable sufficient drug absorption into systemic circulation. This review describes the buccal, sublingual, pulmonary, and transdermal routes of administration for biologics with relevant details of the respective barriers. While all these routes avoid transit through the gastrointestinal tract, each has its own strengths and weaknesses that may be optimal for specific classes of compounds. Buccal and sublingual delivery enable rapid drug uptake through a relatively permeable barrier but are limited by small epithelial surface area, stratified epithelia, and the practical complexities of maintaining a drug delivery system in the mouth. Pulmonary delivery accesses the highly permeable and large surface area of the alveolar epithelium but must overcome the complexities of safe and effective delivery to the alveoli deep in the lung. Transdermal delivery offers convenient access to the body for extended-release delivery via the skin surface but requires the use of novel devices and formulations to overcome the skin’s formidable stratum corneum barrier. New technologies and strategies advanced to overcome these challenges are reviewed, and critical views in future developments of each route are given.

pui:40074520
Title:Effects of shenwu capsule on the learning and memory abilites of the model rats with Huntington disease
Authors:R.-Y. ZhangL. LiP.-P. ZuoL. ZhangC.-F. Ye
Absract:Background: Shenwu capsule is a pure traditional Chinese medicine developed by the Pharmacology Research Department of Xuanwu Hospital of Capital University of Medical Sciences (CUMS). It is served to treat senial dementia and has been proved to be effective in improving the learning and memory ability of many kinds of animal models with dementia. Objective: To observe the changes of learning and memory ability of model rats with Huntington disease(HD), the effects of shenwu capsule on it and explore its possible mechanism. Design: A randomized and controlled trial. Setting and materials: The trial was conducted at the Pharmacological Research Center of Xuanwu Hospital of CUMS. The materials were 60 male SD rats of clear grade. The rats were divided into the following groups: Control group, 3-nitropropionic acid(3-NPA) group, low-dose, middle-dose, and high-dose shenwu capsule groups, haloperidol group, and there were 10 rats in each group. In the process of the trial, there were 1 rat in control group, 2 in 3-NPA group and low-dose shenwu capsule group respectively, 3 in holoperidol group died. The cause might be inhalation asphyxia. Interventions: 20 mg/kg 3-NPA was injected intraperitonealy in each rat every other day for 20 days to make HD model. Rats in shenwu capsules of low dose (0.45 g/kg), middle dose (0.9 g/kg) and high dose (1.8 g/kg) were fed intragastrically for 25 days in corresponding groups. Rats in haloperidol group were fed with haloperidol from the day the HD model rats were made. The initial dose was 100 μg/kg per day, which was increased every other day till 1000 μg/kg per day. Main outcome measures: The time and distance of rats swimming in the Morris water maze; the latent time and times of mistake in step-through test; the bioactivity of Choline acetyl transferase(ChAT) in hippocampus; the number and surface of Glial derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)cells in the CA4 part of hippocampus. Results: The time and distance of the rats with HD were significantly longer in Morris water maze. The swimming time of the rats in low dose and middle dose of shenwu capsule groups was 24.01% and 32.64% shorter respectively than that of the 3-PNA group. In step-through tests, the rats in 3-NPA group showed a shorter latent time than that of the rats in the control group before entering the dark chamber. The latent time in high-dose of and middle-dose shenwu capsule groups was longer than that of the rats in 3-NPA group. In hippocampus, the ChAT bioactivity of the 3-NPA group was lower than that of the control group. The ChAT bioactivity of high-dose shenwu capsule group and haloperidol group was higher respectively than that of the 3-NPA group(P < 0.01). The number of the positive GDNF cells and the total surface of positive cells in the area CA4 of hippocampus of the 3-NPA group were fewer than that of the control group and the total surface of positive cells was also less. The expression of positive GDNF cells in this area of the middle-dose shenwu capsules was markedly enhanced. Conclusion: There are significant damages in learning and memory ability of HD rats and shenwu capsule markedly improve their learning and memory abilities.

doi:10.1089/jamp.2011.0878
Title:Role of pharmacokinetics in establishing bioequivalence for orally inhaled drug products: Workshop summary report
Authors:D. O'ConnorW.P. AdamsM.-L. ChenP. Daley-YatesJ. DavisH. DerendorfM.P. DucharmeA. FuglsangM. HerrleG. HochhausS.M. HolmesS.L. LeeB.V. LiS. LyapustinaS. NewmanM. OliverB. PattersonJ. PeartG. PoochikianP. RoyT. ShahG.J.P. SinghS.S. Sharp
Absract:In April 2010 a workshop on the "Role of Pharmacokinetics in Establishing Bioequivalence for Orally Inhaled Drug Products" was sponsored by the Product Quality Research Institute (PQRI) in coordination with Respiratory Drug Delivery (RDD) 2010. The objective of the workshop was to evaluate the current state of knowledge and identify gaps in information relating to the potential use of pharmacokinetics (PK) as the key indicator of in vivo bioequivalence (BE) of locally acting orally inhaled products (OIPs). In addition, the strengths and limitations of the PK approach to detect differences in product performance compared with in vitro and pharmacodynamic (PD)/clinical/therapeutic equivalence (TE) studies were discussed. The workshop discussed the relationship between PK and lung deposition, in vitro assessment, and PD studies and examined potential PK study designs that could serve as pivotal BE studies. It has been recognized that the sensitivity to detect differences in product performance generally decreases as one moves from in vitro testing to PD measurements. The greatest challenge in the use of PD measurements with some OIPs (particularly inhaled corticosteroids) is the demonstration of a dose-response relationship (for local effects), without which the bioassay, and hence a PD study, may not have sufficient sensitivity to detect differences in product performance. European authorities allow demonstration of in vivo BE of OIPs based solely on pharmacokinetic studies. This workshop demonstrated broader interest among discipline experts and regulators to explore approaches for the use of PK data as the key determinant of in vivo equivalence of locally acting OIPs. If accepted, the suggested approach (PK alone or in conjunction with in vitro tests) could potentially be applied to demonstrate BE of certain orally inhaled drugs. © 2011 Mary Ann Liebert, Inc.

doi:10.1016/j.jconrel.2019.03.029
Title:Design and evaluation of novel inhalable sildenafil citrate spray-dried microparticles for pulmonary arterial hypertension
Authors:H.I. ShahinB.P. VinjamuriA.A. MahmoudR.N. ShammaS.M. MansourH.O. AmmarM.M. GhorabM.B. ChouguleL. Chablani
Absract:Pulmonary delivery of vasodilators is a promising alternative for the intravenous and oral treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The aim of this study was to design and evaluate hydrogel microparticles as a carrier for sustained pulmonary delivery of sildenafil citrate. Spray dried hydrogel microparticles containing biodegradable sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sodium alginate, and sodium hyaluronate polymers at variable concentrations were prepared. A design of experiment using the “Extreme Vertices Mixture” design was executed. The design was used to study the influence of polymer concentration and their interactions on the physicochemical properties of the formulations in terms of particle size, particle size distribution, product yield, entrapment efficiency, and in-vitro drug release. Selected formulations were also evaluated for swelling, biodegradation, moisture content, in-vitro aerodynamic performance, and cytotoxicity. In addition, a lung deposition and pharmacokinetic study was conducted in rats to study drug accumulation in lungs and blood after intratracheal administration of the spray dried inhalable hydrogel microparticles in comparison to orally administered Viagra®. The results demonstrated that formulated microparticles had a mean geometric particle size between 2 and 5 μm, entrapment efficiency of >80%, and yield ranging between 47 and 66% w/w. The in-vitro drug release profiles showed a sustained drug release of sildenafil citrate for over 24 h. The statistical design showed a significant influence of the microparticulate composition on the physicochemical properties. Furthermore, selected formulations were evaluated for their aerodynamic properties. The aerodynamic properties included fine particle fraction ranging between 24 and 30%, dose recovery percent of 68–8 5%, and average mass median aerodynamic diameter of 4.6–4.8 μm. The in-vivo pharmacokinetic study showed that inhaled spray dried hydrogel microparticles (M6) formulation had significantly higher lung/blood C@sub_beginmax@sub_end, AUC, extended half-life, and mean residence time in comparison to orally administered sildenafil citrate of the same dose. In conclusion, the formulated drug-loaded spray dried hydrogel microparticles showed promising in-vitro and in-vivo results for the pulmonary delivery of sildenafil citrate. The spray dried hydrogel microparticles formulation can be considered as a potential alternative of oral sildenafil citrate for treatment of PAH.

doi:10.1080/00325481.2017.1367065
Title:Morphine arer, a novel extended release abuse-deterrent formulation, resists the release of morphine by vaporization for abuse by smoking
Authors:E.R. KinzlerC. PantaleonM. IversonS. Aigner
Absract:Purpose Diversion and abuse of prescription opioids remains a serious public health concern. In 2015, 12.5 million individuals aged 12 or older reported nonmedical use of prescription pain relievers; of these, 54% reported obtaining the pain medications from a friend or relative (2015 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. 2016; Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Rockville, MD). Abusers often seek out extended-release (ER) opioids to gain access to a higher opioid content than what is found in immediate-release formulations. Physical manipulation increases the bioavailability of nonabuse-deterrent formulations of ER opioids for abuse by oral, intravenous, or intranasal routes of administration. The United States Food and Drug Administration has urged the development of abuse-deterrent ER opioid formulations that hinder an abuser's ability to circumvent ER characteristics by manipulation. A 2012 sentinel survey of abusers being assessed by substance abuse treatment centers showed that after introduction of an oxycodone ER abuse-deterrent formulation there was a 1.5-fold increase in abuse of morphine ER by vaporization or smoking (Butler et al. J Pain. 2013;14:351). Morphine ARER (MorphaBondä ER, Daiichi Sankyo, Inc., Basking Ridge, NJ) is an abuse-deterrent, ER morphine formulation. In vitro studies demonstrate that morphine ARER resists physical manipulation and chemical extraction, forms a viscous nonsyringeable material in liquid environments, and retains its ER characteristics despite manipulation. We investigated the ability to vaporize intact and manipulated morphine ARER when heated for abuse by smoking, which is commonly performed in homemade foil pipes by a method known as "chasing the dragon." Methods A laboratory apparatus, assembled to mimic smoking, consisted of a hot plate, aluminum foil weigh boats, and an inverted glass funnel to collect vaporized material. The funnel was connected to a collector device consisting of a series of 3 cold traps that contained an organic solvent. A vacuum pump set to mimic the force generated by a human smoker drew vaporized material captured by the funnel through the collecting device. To make smoking more efficient, abusers will often convert morphine to its base form, which is more easily vaporized than morphine sulfate. However, some abusers will still attempt to vaporize morphine sulfate. As such, morphine base and morphine sulfate were used as positive controls and optimal conditions for vaporization were determined by subjecting the purified controls to vaporization over a range of times and temperatures. Vaporization of intact morphine ARER (n=3) and manipulated (crushed with a common household tool) morphine ARER (n=3) were then tested under the predetermined optimal conditions. Morphine levels were quantified by a validated liquid chromatography-tandem quadropole mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay. Results As expected, purified morphine base was the most successfully vaporized with an average of 18% of morphine collected from the vapor. Under the same morphine base-optimized conditions, < 1% of morphine was vaporized from manipulated morphine ARER and none was retained on the smoking device, suggesting that 99% of the crushed tablet was degraded during the heating process. Less than 0.5% of morphine from intact morphine ARER tablets was detected from vaporized material. Under conditions optimal for vaporizing morphine salt, < 2% of morphine was collected from the vapor of purified morphine sulfate. Similarly, < 3% and < 2% of morphine was collected from the vapor from manipulated or intact morphine ARER tablets, respectively. Under morphine sulfate-optimized conditions, approximately 10% of morphine in intact morphine ARER tablets remained on the smoking device and no residual morphine was detected on the smoking device for crushed morphine ARER tablets or the positive control. During all the replicates involving morphine ARER, the technicians reported a pungent burning plastic odor when intact or manipulated morphine ARER was heated. Residual material remaining in the smoking device after each experiment was highly charred, supporting the hypothesis that most of the morphine was degraded during the heating process. Conclusions These data suggest that it is unlikely an abuser could successfully use smoking as a means of abusing morphine from morphine ARER tablets. Further, the pungent odor produced when morphine ARER tablets are subjected to high temperatures may itself deter an abuser from inhaling any smoke generated during an attempt to administer the drug by the smoking route.

doi:10.1007/s00431-020-03888-x
Title:Bronchodilating effects of a new beclometasone dipropionate plus formoterol fumarate formulation via pressurized metered-dose inhaler in asthmatic children: a double-blind, randomized, cross-over clinical study
Authors:P. PohunekG. VaroliY. ReznichenkoS. Mokia-SerbinaJ. BrzostekV. KostrominaM. KaladzeA. MuraroE. CarzanaS. ArmaniJ. Kaczmarek
Absract:A new pediatric fixed combination of beclometasone dipropionate (BDP) 50 μg and formoterol fumarate (FF) 6 μg via pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) (CHF1535, Chiesi, Italy) was investigated. In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over study, a single CHF1535 administration using AeroChamber Plus™ spacer device (2 actuations, total dose BDP 100 μg/FF 12 μg) was compared to the same pMDI free combination in 56 asthmatic children aged ≥ 5 and < 12 years. Primary efficacy variable was forced expiratory volume during the first second (FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end) area under the curve corrected by time over 12 h following morning dose (AUC@sub_begin0-12h@sub_end). Further CHF1535 doses (50 μg/6 μg, 100 μg/12 μg, and 200 μg/24 μg) were also explored. Adverse events, electrocardiogram, and vital signs were monitored for safety. CHF1535 was non-inferior to free combination [adjusted mean difference (95% CI) 0.004 L (− 0.050, 0.041] with lower confidence limit greater than the limit set at 0.1 L. FEV@sub_begin1@sub_end AUC@sub_begin0-12h@sub_end of each CHF1535 dose vs placebo were 0.037 L (p = 0.160), 0.119 L (p < 0.001), and 0.094 (p < 0.001) for 50/6, 100/12, and 200/24, respectively. No safety signals were found. Conclusion: CHF1535 was as effective as free combination BDP/FF, with a trend towards a dose-related response. All treatments were safe. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01584492What is Known:•Inhaled pressurized metered-dose solutions (pMDI) are the preferred treatment for pediatric asthma.•Combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β@sub_begin2@sub_end- agonists is a well-established approach to control airway inflammation and airway obstruction also in pediatric patients.What is New:•A novel pediatric pMDI fixed combination of beclomethasone dipropionate 50 μg and formoterol fumarate 6 μg (CHF 1535) was non-inferior to the free combination at the same dose in pulmonary function over the 12-h post-dose period in asthmatic children, with trend towards a dose-related response.

doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2021.120376
Title:Fabrication, characterization and optimization of nanostructured lipid carrier formulations using Beclomethasone dipropionate for pulmonary drug delivery via medical nebulizers
Authors:I. KhanS. HusseinC. HouacineS. Khan SadozaiY. IslamR. BnyanA. ElhissiS. Yousaf
Absract:Aerosolization is a non-invasive approach in drug delivery for localized and systemic effect. Nanostructured lipid carriers (NLCs) are new generation versatile carriers, which offer protection from degradation and enhance bioavailability of poorly water soluble drugs. The aim of this study was to develop and optimize NLC formulations in combination with optimized airflow rates (i.e. 60 and 15 L/min) and choice of medical nebulizers including Air jet, Vibrating mesh and Ultrasonic nebulizer for superior aerosolization performance, assessed via a next generation impactor (NGI). Novel composition and combination of NLC formulations (F1 – F15) were prepared via ultrasonication method, employing five solid lipids (glycerol trimyristate (GTM), glycerol trilaurate (GTL), cetyl palmitate (CP), glycerol monostearate (GMS) and stearic acid (SA)); and three liquid lipids (glyceryl tributyrate (GTB), propylene glycol dicaprylate/dicaprate (PGD) and isopropyl palmitate (IPP)) in 1:3 w/w ratios (i.e. combination of one solid and one liquid lipid), with Beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) incorporated as the model drug. Out of fifteen BDP-NLC formulations, the physicochemical properties of formulations F7, F8 and F10 exhibited desirable stability (one week at 25 °C), with associated particle size of ~241 nm, and >91% of drug entrapment. Post aerosolization, F10 was observed to deposit notably smaller sized particles (from 198 to 136 nm, 283 to 135 nm and 239 to 157 nm for Air jet, Vibrating mesh and Ultrasonic nebulizers, respectively) in all stages (i.e. from stage 1 to 8) of the NGI, when compared to F7 and F8 formulations. Six week stability studies conducted at 4, 25 and 45 °C, demonstrated F10 formulation stability in terms of particle size, irrespective of temperature conditions. Nebulizer performance study using the NGI for F10 identified the Air jet to be the most efficient nebulizer, depositing lower concentrations of BDP in the earlier stages (1–3) and higher (circa 82 and 85%) in the lateral stages (4–8) using 60 and 15 L/min airflow rates, when compared to the Vibrating mesh and Ultrasonic nebulizers. Moreover, at both airflow rates, the Air jet nebulizer elicited a longer nebulization time of ~42 min, facilitating aerosol inhalation for prophylaxis of asthma with normal tidal breathing. Based on characterization and nebulizer performance employing both 60 and 15 L/min airflow rates, the Air jet nebulizer offered enhanced performance, exhibiting a higher fine particle dose (FPD) (90 and 69 µg), fine particle fraction (FPF) (70 and 54%), respirable fraction (RF) (92 and 69%), and lower mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) (1.15 and 1.62 µm); in addition to demonstrating higher drug deposition in the lateral parts of the NGI, when compared to its counterpart nebulizers. The F10 formulation used with the Air jet nebulizer was identified as being the most suitable combination for delivery of BDP-NLC formulations.

doi:10.1208/s12248-021-00569-x
Title:Can Pharmacokinetic Studies Assess the Pulmonary Fate of Dry Powder Inhaler Formulations of Fluticasone Propionate?
Authors:G. HochhausM.-J. ChenA. KurumaddaliU. SchillingY. JiaoS.K. DrescherE. AminiB. KandalaC. TabulovJ. ShaoB. SeayM.N. Abu-HasanS.M. BaumsteinL. WinnerJ. ShurR. PriceM. HindleX. WeiC. CarrascoD. SandellO. OguntimeinM. KinjoR. DelvadiaB. SalujaS.L. LeeD.S. ContiJ.B. Bulitta
Absract:In the context of streamlining generic approval, this study assessed whether pharmacokinetics (PK) could elucidate the pulmonary fate of orally inhaled drug products (OIDPs). Three fluticasone propionate (FP) dry powder inhaler (DPI) formulations (A-4.5, B-3.8, and C-3.7), differing only in type and composition of lactose fines, exhibited median mass aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 4.5 μm (A-4.5), 3.8 μm (B-3.8), and 3.7 μm (C-3.7) and varied in dissolution rates (A-4.5 slower than B-3.8 and C-3.7). In vitro total lung dose (TLD@sub_beginin vitro@sub_end) was determined as the average dose passing through three anatomical mouth-throat (MT) models and yielded dose normalization factors (DNF) for each DPI formulation X (DNF@sub_beginx@sub_end = TLD@sub_beginin vitro,x@sub_end/TLD@sub_beginin vitro,A-4.5@sub_end). The DNF was 1.00 for A-4.5, 1.32 for B-3.8, and 1.21 for C-3.7. Systemic PK after inhalation of 500 μg FP was assessed in a randomized, double-blind, four-way crossover study in 24 healthy volunteers. Peak concentrations (C@sub_beginmax@sub_end) of A-4.5 relative to those of B-3.8 or C-3.7 lacked bioequivalence without or with dose normalization. The area under the curve (AUC@sub_begin0–Inf@sub_end) was bio-IN-equivalent before dose normalization and bioequivalent after dose normalization. Thus, PK could detect differences in pulmonary available dose (AUC@sub_begin0–Inf@sub_end) and residence time (dose-normalized C@sub_beginmax@sub_end). The differences in dose-normalized C@sub_beginmax@sub_end could not be explained by differences in in vitro dissolution. This might suggest that C@sub_beginmax@sub_end differences may indicate differences in regional lung deposition. Overall this study supports the use of PK studies to provide relevant information on the pulmonary performance characteristics (i.e., available dose, residence time, and regional lung deposition).

doi:10.1016/S2213-2600(17)30310-7
Title:A novel formulation of inhaled sodium cromoglicate (PA101) in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and chronic cough: a randomised, double-blind, proof-of-concept, phase 2 trial
Authors:S.S. BirringM.S. WijsenbeekS. AgrawalJ.W.K. van den BergH. StoneT.M. MaherA. TutuncuA.H. Morice
Absract:Background Cough can be a debilitating symptom of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and is difficult to treat. PA101 is a novel formulation of sodium cromoglicate delivered via a high-efficiency eFlow nebuliser that achieves significantly higher drug deposition in the lung compared with the existing formulations. We aimed to test the efficacy and safety of inhaled PA101 in patients with IPF and chronic cough and, to explore the antitussive mechanism of PA101, patients with chronic idiopathic cough (CIC) were also studied. Methods This pilot, proof-of-concept study consisted of a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in patients with IPF and chronic cough and a parallel study of similar design in patients with CIC. Participants with IPF and chronic cough recruited from seven centres in the UK and the Netherlands were randomly assigned (1:1, using a computer-generated randomisation schedule) by site staff to receive PA101 (40 mg) or matching placebo three times a day via oral inhalation for 2 weeks, followed by a 2 week washout, and then crossed over to the other arm. Study participants, investigators, study staff, and the sponsor were masked to group assignment until all participants had completed the study. The primary efficacy endpoint was change from baseline in objective daytime cough frequency (from 24 h acoustic recording, Leicester Cough Monitor). The primary efficacy analysis included all participants who received at least one dose of study drug and had at least one post-baseline efficacy measurement. Safety analysis included all those who took at least one dose of study drug. In the second cohort, participants with CIC were randomly assigned in a study across four centres with similar design and endpoints. The study was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02412020) and the EU Clinical Trials Register (EudraCT Number 2014-004025-40) and both cohorts are closed to new participants. Findings Between Feb 13, 2015, and Feb 2, 2016, 24 participants with IPF were randomly assigned to treatment groups. 28 participants with CIC were enrolled during the same period and 27 received study treatment. In patients with IPF, PA101 reduced daytime cough frequency by 31·1% at day 14 compared with placebo; daytime cough frequency decreased from a mean 55 (SD 55) coughs per h at baseline to 39 (29) coughs per h at day 14 following treatment with PA101, versus 51 (37) coughs per h at baseline to 52 (40) cough per h following placebo treatment (ratio of least-squares [LS] means 0·67, 95% CI 0·48–0·94, p=0·0241). By contrast, no treatment benefit for PA101 was observed in the CIC cohort; mean reduction of daytime cough frequency at day 14 for PA101 adjusted for placebo was 6·2% (ratio of LS means 1·27, 0·78–2·06, p=0·31). PA101 was well tolerated in both cohorts. The incidence of adverse events was similar between PA101 and placebo treatments, most adverse events were mild in severity, and no severe adverse events or serious adverse events were reported. Interpretation This study suggests that the mechanism of cough in IPF might be disease specific. Inhaled PA101 could be a treatment option for chronic cough in patients with IPF and warrants further investigation. Funding Patara Pharma.

doi:10.1300/J175v03n03_03
Title:A single centre, placebo-controlled, four period, crossover, tolerability study assessing, pharmacodynamic effects, pharmacokinetic characteristics and cognitive profiles of a single dose of three formulations of Cannabis Based Medicine Extracts (CBMEs) (GWPD9901), (see abstract)
Authors:G.W. GuyM.E. Flint
Absract:This study was the first study of GW's CBME in man. It was performed in six healthy subjects, employing test treatments consisting of CBD:THC sublingual drops (GW-1011-01): 5 mg Δ@sup_begin9@sup_end-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) + 5 mg cannabidiol (CBD) per ml of glycerol:ethanol (Eth):propylene glycol (PG) (4:4:2), with peppermint flavouring, High CBD sublingual drops (GW-3009-01): 5 ing CBD per ml of glycerol: Eth:PG (4:4:2), with peppermint flavouring, High THC sublingual drops (GW-2009-01): 5 mg THC per ml of glycerol:Eth:PG (4:4:2, with peppermint flavouring, placebo sublingual. drops (GW-4003-01): glycerol: Eth:PG (4:4:2), with peppermint flavouring, aerosol (GW-1009-01): 5 mg CBD + 5 mg THC per ml formulated in propellant:Eth (80:20), and nebuliser (GW-1012-01): 10 mg CBD + 10 mg THC per ml of cremophor (Crem) (0.4):PG (1.5):macrogol (1):dodecanol (0.8 :H@sub_begin2@sub_endO (7.4), and placebo nebuliser (administered to subjects 005 and 006 instead of the active, nebuliser test treatment): Crem (0.4 :PG (1.5):macrogol (1):dodecanol (0.8):H@sub_begin2@sub_endO (7.4). Periods 1, 5 and 6 were open label, Periods 2 to 4 double blind. The study was a partially randomised crossover using single doses of THC and/or CBD or placebo. The study drug was administered as sublingual drops according to a pre-determined randomisation scheme in Periods 1 to 4. In Period 5, CBD:THC was administered as a sublingual aerosol and in Period 6 CBD:THC was administered as an inhalation via a nebuliser. There was a six-day washout between each dose. Primary objectives of the study were to make a preliminary evaluation of the tolerability of cannabis based medicine extracts at single dose in. comparison to placebo in order to provide guidance for dosage in future studies; GWPD9901 EXT: was designed to compare the effect of method of administration (sublingually via an aerosol) or the route (inhalation) on the cannabis based medicine extract containing THC and CBD in a ratio of 1:1 in terms of subjective assessment of well-being, in vivo pharmacokinetic characteristics over 12 h, the adverse event (AE) profile and measurement of vital signs and conjunctival reddening over 12 h. Secondary objectives were to compare the effects of the four preparations in terms of cognitive assessment, subjective assessment of well-being in vivo pharmacokinetic characteristics over 12 h, the AE profile and measurement of vital signs and conjunctival reddening over 12 h. The methodology was a six single dose, partially randomised, six-way cross-over study. In Period 1, all subjects received CBD:THC drops. In Periods 2-4, High THC drops, High CBD drops and placebo drops were administered, double blind and fully randomised. In Period 5, all subjects received the aerosol test treatment and in Period 6, all subjects received the nebuliser test treatment. Each subject received five single doses of a maximum of 20 mg CBD, 20 mg CBD + 20 mg THC and 20 mg THC on five separate occasions and a placebo dose on one occasion. The duration of the study was six weeks. Following administration of CBD:THC (Sativex) sublingual drops, mean concentrations of CBD, THC and 11-hydroxy-THC were above the Lower Limit of Quantification (LLOQ) by 45 min post-dose. Plasma concentrations of THC were at least double those of CBD before both decreased below the LLOQ by 360 min and 480 min post-dose, respectively. When High CBD sublingual drops were administered, plasma levels of CBD were generally similar to those measured after CBD:THC sublingual drops. High THC resulted in marginally earlier detection of mean concentrations of both THC and 11-hydroxy-THC and a slightly earlier decline than for CBD:THC sublingual plasma concentrations. Following administration of CBD:THC via the pressurised aerosol, mean quantifiable levels of CBD and THC were detected marginally earlier than for the CBD:THC sublingual drops and declined below the LLOQ marginally later. Plasma concentrations of THC, 11-hydroxy-THC and CBD following administration via the aerosol were lower than after administration of the sublingual drops. Following administration of CBD:THC via the nebuliser, mean plasma levels of both CBD and THC increased rapidly (within 5 min) to levels much higher than measured following administration of the sublingual drops and were maintained until around 120 min post-dose before declining rapidly. Levels of 11-hydroxy-THC were very low compared with those after sublingual dosing. There were no statistically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of THC or CBD between CBD:THC sublingual drops and High THC, High CBD or pressurised aerosol. With the exception of a single statistically significant difference in AUCO@sub_begin0-∞@sub_end for 11-hydroxy-THC following administration of the High THC compared with CBD:THC sublingual drops there were no significant differences in the PK of 11-hydroxy-THC either. Dosing with the inhaled nebuliser produced marked differences in the pharmacokinetics of CBD and THC compared with CBD:THC sublingual dosing. Peak concentration was greater and much earlier although only C@sub_beginmax@sub_end of CBD and T@sub_beginmax@sub_end of THC were statistically significantly different. Peak concentration and AUCs of 11-hydroxy-THC were statistically significantly less, reflecting reduced early metabolism of THC by this route. No consistent statistically significant differences were noted between the pharmacokinetic parameters of High CBD, High THC and the aerosol when compared to the CBD:THC sublingual drops. However, the nebuliser resulted in a rapid absorption of CBD and THC and higher peak plasma levels but a reduction in the metabolism of THC to 11-hydroxy-THC. Subjects experienced a reduction in wakefulness, feeling of well-being, mood, production of saliva and increased hunger and unpleasant effect following administration of each test treatment and placebo. The maximum mean changes in wakefulness, feeling of well-being, mood and production of saliva were reported 3 h post-dose following administration of CBD:THC sublingual drops. Similar trends were also reported following administration of placebo and therefore it is suggested that the effects reported may not be entirely due to active test treatments. The greatest mean incidence of unpleasant effects was reported earlier than for any other effect and following administration of the nebuliser test treatment. The sublingual test treatments were best liked and the nebuliser test treatment was least liked. All of the subjects (100%) reported coughing and three subjects (50%) reported a sore throat following dosing with the nebuliser. The sublingual test treatments were well tolerated by all subjects. All six subjects experienced at least two AEs during the study, but there were no deaths, serious adverse events (SAEs) or other significant AEs. The commonest AEs were tachycardia, conjunctival hyperaemia and abnormal dreams. © 2003 by The Haworth Press, Inc. All rights reserved.

doi:10.4103/atm.atm_74_21
Title:Application of aerosol therapy in respiratory diseases in children: A Saudi expert consensus
Authors:A. AlharbiA. YousefS. AlharbiA. Al-ShamraniM. AlqwaieeM. AlmezinyY. SaidS. AlshehriF. AlotaibiR. MosalliK. AlawamM. Alsaadi
Absract:The Saudi Pediatric Pulmonology Association (SPPA) is a subsidiary of the Saudi Thoracic Society (STS), which consists of a group of Saudi experts with well-respected academic and clinical backgrounds in the fields of asthma and other respiratory diseases. The SPPA Expert Panel realized the need to draw up a clear, simple to understand, and easy to use guidance regarding the application of different aerosol therapies in respiratory diseases in children, due to the high prevalence and high economic burden of these diseases in Saudi Arabia. This statement was developed based on the available literature, new evidence, and experts' practice to come up with such consensuses about the usage of different aerosol therapies for the management of respiratory diseases in children (asthma and nonasthma) in different patient settings, including outpatient, emergency room, intensive care unit, and inpatient settings. For this purpose, SPPA has initiated and formed a national committee which consists of experts from concerned specialties (pediatric pulmonology, pediatric emergency, clinical pharmacology, pediatric respiratory therapy, as well as pediatric and neonatal intensive care). These committee members are from different healthcare sectors in Saudi Arabia (Ministry of Health, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Education, and private healthcare sector). In addition to that, this committee is representing different regions in Saudi Arabia (Eastern, Central, and Western region). The subject was divided into several topics which were then assigned to at least two experts. The authors searched the literature according to their own strategies without central literature review. To achieve consensus, draft reports and recommendations were reviewed and voted on by the whole panel.

doi:10.1007/s00262-008-0455-z
Title:Local therapy of cancer with free IL-2
Authors:W. Den OtterJ.J.L. JacobsJ.J. BattermannG.J. HordijkZ. KrastevE.V. MoiseevaR.J.E. StewartP.G.P.M. ZiekmanJ.W. Koten
Absract:This is a position paper about the therapeutic effects of locally applied free IL-2 in the treatment of cancer. Local therapy: IL-2 therapy of cancer was originally introduced as a systemic therapy. This therapy led to about 20% objective responses. Systemic therapy however was very toxic due to the vascular leakage syndrome. Nevertheless, this treatment was a break-through in cancer immunotherapy and stimulated some interesting questions: Supposing that the mechanism of IL-2 treatment is both proliferation and tumoricidal activity of the tumor infiltrating cells, then locally applied IL-2 should result in a much higher local IL-2 concentration than systemic IL-2 application. Consequently a greater beneficial effect could be expected after local IL-2 application (peritumoral = juxtatumoral, intratumoral, intra-arterial, intracavitary, or intratracheal = inhalation). Free IL-2: Many groups have tried to prepare a more effective IL-2 formulation than free IL-2. Examples are slow release systems, insertion of the IL-2 gene into a tumor cell causing prolonged IL-2 release. However, logistically free IL-2 is much easier to apply; hence we concentrated in this review and in most of our experiments on the use of free IL-2. Local therapy with free IL-2 may be effective against transplanted tumors in experimental animals, and against various spontaneous carcinomas, sarcomas, and melanoma in veterinary and human cancer patients. It may induce rejection of very large, metastasized tumor loads, for instance advanced clinical tumors. The effects of even a single IL-2 application may be impressive. Not each tumor or tumor type is sensitive to local IL-2 application. For instance transplanted EL4 lymphoma or TLX9 lymphoma were not sensitive in our hands. Also the extent of sensitivity differs: In Bovine Ocular Squamous Cell Carcinoma (BOSCC) often a complete regression is obtained, whereas with the Bovine Vulval Papilloma and Carcinoma Complex (BVPCC) mainly stable disease is attained. Analysis of the results of local IL-2 therapy in 288 cases of cancer in human patients shows that there were 27% Complete Regressions (CR), 23% Partial Regressions (PR), 18% Stable Disease (SD), and 32% Progressive Disease (PD). In all tumors analyzed, local IL-2 therapy was more effective than systemic IL-2 treatment. Intratumoral IL-2 applications are more effective than peritumoral application or application at a distant site. Tumor regression induced by intratumoral IL-2 application may be a fast process (requiring about a week) in the case of a highly vascular tumor since IL-2 induces vascular leakage/edema and consequently massive tumor necrosis. The latter then stimulates an immune response. In less vascular tumors or less vascular tumor sites, regression may require 9-20 months; this regression is mainly caused by a cytotoxic leukocyte reaction. Hence the disadvantageous vascular leakage syndrome complicating systemic treatment is however advantageous in local treatment, since local edema may initiate tumor necrosis. Thus the therapeutic effect of local IL-2 treatment is not primarily based on tumor immunity, but tumor immunity seems to be useful as a secondary component of the IL-2 induced local processes. If local IL-2 is combined with surgery, radiotherapy or local chemotherapy the therapeutic effect is usually greater than with either therapy alone. Hence local free IL-2 application can be recommended as an addition to standard treatment protocols. Local treatment with free IL-2 is straightforward and can readily be applied even during surgical interventions. Local IL-2 treatment is usually without serious side effects and besides minor complaints it is generally well supported. Only small quantities of IL-2 are required. Hence the therapy is relatively cheap. A single IL-2 application of 4.5 million U IL-2 costs about 70 Euros. Thus combined local treatment may offer an alternative in those circumstances when more expensive forms of treatment are not available, for instance in resource poor countries. © 2008 The Author(s).

doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.02.007
Title:Pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, efficacy, and safety data from two randomized, double-blind studies in patients with asthma and an in vitro study comparing two dry-powder inhalers delivering a combination of salmeterol 50 μg and fluticasone propionate 250 μg: Implications for establishing bioequivalence of inhaled products
Authors:P.T. Daley-YatesD.A. ParkinsM.J. ThomasB. GillettK.W. HouseH.G. Ortega
Absract:Background: The use of dry-powder inhalers (DPIs) to administer respiratory medicines is increasing, and new DPIs are likely to be developed because of expiring patents. However, there is considerable debate concerning the extent to which DPIs are interchangeable without altering disease control or the safety profile of the treatment. Objective: This study was designed to compare the pharmacokinetic (PK), pharmacodynamic (PD), efficacy, and safety data for 2 DPIs delivering a combination of salmeterol 50 μg plus fluticasone propionate (FP) 250 μg (SFC 50/250) to investigate assumptions of bioequivalence. Methods: Three studies compared SFC 50/250 delivery using a reservoir powder inhalation device (RPID) and a Diskus® multiple-dose inhaler: an in vitro assessment of fine-particle-mass (FPM) profiles of the emitted doses; a PK/PD study of SFC 50/250 administered in two 14-day crossover treatment periods to 22 adults with moderate, persistent asthma to determine the equivalence of the RPID and Diskus inhaler in terms of drug delivery and systemic exposure; and a 12-week clinical efficacy and safety study of SFC 50/250 in 270 patients ≥12 years of age with moderate, persistent asthma to assess the equivalence of the RPID and Diskus inhaler based on peak expiratory flow (PEF) rates. FPM was summed from the quantity of active pharmaceutical ingredient deposited on stages 1 to 5 of a cascade impactor, representing an aerodynamic particle size range of 0.8 to 6.2 μm. Systemic exposure to SFC 50/250 was declared no greater with RPID than with the Diskus inhaler if the upper limit of the 90% CI for the ratio of FP AUC for the 2 devices was below the upper limit of the equivalence range (ie, <1.25). Adverse events, clinical laboratory test results, and vital signs were recorded throughout the 2 clinical studies. Results: In vitro, mean FPM values for the RPID and Diskus inhaler, respectively, were 13.1 and 12.8 μg/dose for salmeterol (P = NS) and 66.8 and 66.2 μg/dose for FP (P = NS). The only notable differences were mean FP for particle sizes 2.3 to 3.2 μm (21.4 μg/dose for RPID, 25.6 μg/dose for Diskus) and for sizes 4.0 to 6.2 μm (17.3 μg/dose for RPID, 11.7 μg/dose for Diskus). In the PK/PD study, there were 22 patients (16 men and 6 women), most (86%) of whom were white. Mean (SD) age was 26.0 (5.0) years (range, 19-35 years), and mean (SD) weight was 67.3 (8.9) kg. The 2 inhalers did not meet the criteria for declaring bioequivalence: estimated ratios (RPID:Diskus) were 2.00 (90% CI, 1.56 to 2.55) for FP AUC up to the time point of next dosing and 1.92 (90% CI, 1.64 to 2.25) for salmeterol maximum observed plasma concentration at the end of the dosing interval (at steady state). Urine cortisol (0-24 hours) was significantly lower for the RPID than for the Diskus inhaler (ratio, 0.74 [95% CI, 0.57 to 0.96]; P = 0.026); no significant difference in plasma cortisol was noted between the 2 inhalers (ratio, 0.85 [95% CI, 0.7 to 1.04]). A small but statistically significant increase in maximum heart rate (5 beats/min) was noted in the RPID group (ratio, 1.05 [95% CI, 1.01 to 1.10]; P = 0.029). No notable differences in other PD end points were observed. Drug-related adverse events occurred in both groups (2 [dysphagia and tremor] in the RPID group and 3 [2 cases of dysphonia, 1 case of mucous-membrane irritation] in the Diskus group). There were 270 patients (136 females, 134 males) in the clinical efficacy and safety study, most (94%) of whom were white; mean (SD) age was 37.2 (17.0) years (range, 11-77 years) in the RPID group and 35.4 (17.2) years (range, 12-77 years) in the Diskus group. The RPID and the Diskus inhaler met the predefined equivalence criteria (±15 L/min) in terms of mean change in morning PEF from baseline: 3.9 L/min (95% CI, -3.1 to 11.0). The 2 SFC 50/250 inhalers were well tolerated; the most frequently reported adverse event was bronchitis, reported by 12% of the patients in the RPID group and 9% of those in the Diskus group. The only serious adverse event, which occurred in the RPID group and was related to bronchial infection, was considered unrelated to treatment. Conclusions: In vitro particle size distribution data were potentially superimposable for the RPID and the Diskus inhaler. The 2 devices were considered to be clinically equivalent in terms of mean morning PEF but were not considered equivalent in terms of PK systemic exposure. The 2 SFC 50/250 inhalers were well tolerated and had comparable safety profiles; no serious adverse events were attributed to the study product. © 2009 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.
